---
layout: post
title: "638:"
date: 2022-09-16
---

2000s-2010s: Growth in Mainland China  
In Hong Kong, the Four Heavenly Kings faded in the 2000s, but many other new artists came to the fore. The 2000s also began with an explosion of pop idols, many of whom are from Taiwan. Mainland China saw a rapid increase in the number of Mandopop singers, bands, and idol groups as pop music becomes increasingly mainstream by mid-2000s. The growing Mainland film industry and Chinese television drama also increased demand for Mandopop. Since the 2000s, the emergence of indie rock in mainland China and Taiwan had exploded into a flourishing indie music scene in mainland China and Taiwan, adding various new diversities into Mandopop. Entry of popular Taiwan-based bands such as Mayday and Sodagreen while in mainland Chinese-based bands such as SuperVC and Milk Coffee had brought a new phase of rock fusion into Mandopop.

The music industry in Taiwan began to suffer from music piracy in the digital age, and its revenue plummeted to $US95 million in 2005\. The primary revenue sources in Taiwan music industry shifted to advertising, concerts, KTV (karaoke) and movie. The dramatic decline of CD sales shifted the market in favour of mainland China. 2005 was known as 'The First Year of Digital Music' in China as its digital music sales of $US57 million overtook CDs in 2005\.

However, the pop music industry itself in mainland China was still relatively small in the decade of 2000s compared to Taiwan and Hong Kong as popstars from Taiwan and other overseas Chinese communities were still popular in mainland China. Mandopop singers such as Jay Chou were popular performing in the rhythm and blues and rap music genre, popularising a new fusion style of music known as zhongguofeng.

[Jay Chou 周杰倫 (稻香 Rice Field) (With English Subtitles)](https://youtu.be/HKtwF3-r90c)  
sooo fire :fire: :fire: :fire:

In recent years, the burgeoning number of contests have brought an idol concept (偶像, ǒuxiàng) to the Mandopop industry. Nationwide singing competitions in mainland China, such as the Super Girl, Super Boy, The Voice of China, Chinese Idol, and The X Factor: Zhongguo Zui Qiang Yin, have greatly boosted Mandopop's influence many contestants emerge as successful singers such as Joker Xue, Jane Zhang, Bella Yao, Chris Lee (Li Yuchun), Jason Zhang, Chen Chusheng, Momo Wu Mochou, Laure Shang Wenjie, etc. The same phenomenon also occurred in Taiwan, from the show One Million Star and Super Idol, new talented singers have entered the Mandopop market, including Aska Yang, Yoga Lin, Lala Hsu and so on. In Taiwan, the term "quality idol" (優質偶像, yōuzhì ǒuxiàng) has entered the popular lexicon, referring to Mandopop singers who are good-looking, talented and highly educated.

Recent years also saw the rise in crossover appeal of Taiwanese bubblegum pop boybands and girl bands to the mainland Chinese scene, such as the very commercially successful acts like S.H.E and Fahrenheit. Several new boybands and girl bands also have emerged in mainland China such as Top Combine, TFBOYS and Idol Producer and Produce Camp boy groups including Nine Percent, NEX7, UNINE, R1SE, INTO1, THE9, Rocket Girls and Oner.

[S.H.E \[ Super Star \]  Official MV](https://youtu.be/gr5fNKK2FaA)

And that's all for Mandopop.  
I'll do some other stuff, Then get to Cantopop next, which'll be shorter.

Can't stop zerking to this Jermacore zoinker  
[⊀⁘˻Z E R K E D˼⁘⊁](https://youtu.be/56HJVnmUVCY)
