---
layout: post
title: "682:"
date: 2022-10-30
---

New wave appeared in the late 1970s, largely influenced by the Punk Rock explosion of the mid-1970s as well as Pop Rock and Electronic music. It is often considered a close relative of and a stylistic counterpart to Post-Punk which appeared at around the same time and was also influenced by punk rock. New wave music is characterized by agitated and busy guitar melodies, jerky rhythms, "stop-and-go" composition structures, often a heavy reliance on synthesizers, and typically intricate percussive sections (sometimes with the help of drum machines).

Early on, beat-oriented music like Afrobeat and Disco also had a strong influence on the movement, try listening for the afrobeat influence on at 1:19:25 Cross Eyed & Painless from the previous rec. Power Pop and Synthpop are also closely associated with new wave and many artists played a combination of the three genres at various parts in their careers. It should be noted that the term "new wave" was and still is sometimes used as a synonym for synthpop, although this specific usage has largely fallen into disuse. The closer focus on Pop songwriting and electronics as well as a mainstream aesthetic helped separate the genre from its punk rock roots and its cousin in post-punk, a detachment that became clearer with synth-led acts represented by New Romantic. Alongside the genres mentioned previously, new wave is also musically, aesthetically, and commercially linked to many other styles of music from related subcultures of the 1980s, including 2 Tone (rec 9), Alternative Dance (393), Mod (660) Revival, Sophisti-Pop (453), and Coldwave (464).

Elvis Costello, Blondie, and Talking Heads helped to pioneer new wave music are some of the earliest and most popular acts in this genre; their fashion and aesthetics had a lasting impact on the flashy, eccentric, and distinctly middle-class style of the new wave scene and subsequently had a major effect on 1980s pop culture in general.

There's a ton of great New Wave music, mainly from the early 1980s, as well as from the genre's resugence in the 2000's. I'll just go over some of my favorite tracks, that combine new wave with various other influences.

The Clash combined New Wave with Punk Rock, Post-Punk Ska, Reggae, and Rockabilly. I recced something from this album 675 days ago all the way back on rec 7\. It's a fantastic, diverse album, though, so I think it's fine to do it twice. Here's the first track off the album.  
[London Calling (Remastered)](https://youtu.be/XN7iEFVLf5c)

Tears for Fears made New Wave which could also be considered Synthpop, Sophisti-Pop, Prog Pop, and Big Music (more on that soon). Here's something from their 1985 album Songs From the Big Chair  
[Shout](https://youtu.be/ldAp-mZqAro) (this is from the same album as Everybody Wants to Rule the World, which most people have heard)

Talking Heads, as mentioned already, combined New Wave with Post-Punk, Funk, and Afrobeat, which you can hear very clearly in their 1980 album Remain in Light:  
[Born Under Punches (The Heat Goes On) (2005 Remaster)](https://youtu.be/w6T_X7MXg40)

The 1981 King Crimson album "Discipline" combined Art Rock, Prog Rock, and New Wave. Notably, this album is ranked \#1 for 1981, \#207 overall on RYM.  
[King Crimson \- Discipline](https://youtu.be/en5YRCvppIA)

I hope loli in early 20s is doing ok. Ukrainian apparently.
