---
layout: post
title: "676:"
date: 2022-10-24
---

1880s to 1940s: Origin  
Under Japanese rule (1895–1945), Taiwanese music continued and developed its form from the previous period. By the 1930s, vinyl records of traditional music, such as Taiwanese opera, Peking opera, Nanguan, and Beiguan were popular.

A new business model of the popular music industry emerged when Kashiwano Seijiro, who led the Taiwan branch of Columbia Record Company, started to market their records in new ways, such as marketing songs with silent movies. Kashiwano also recruited and made popular musical talents such as Teng Yu-hsien, Yao Tsan-fu, Su Tung, Lee Lim-chhiu, Sun-sun. They produced important titles such as Bāng Chhun-hong (Longing for the Spring Breeze) and The Torment of a Flower (Flower of a Rainy Night).

Here are two modern adaptations of that latter song. One instrumental, the other a cover with vocals by Asia's eternal queen of pop Teresa Teng (see recs 636, 637, 650\)

[1934 雨夜花 原版蟲膠](https://youtu.be/LaAzCTzYquQ) (an original record from 1934\)

[鄧雨賢 (Ten Yu-Hsien) \- 雨夜花 (The Torment of a Flower)](https://youtu.be/qflbyptHSlQ) (modern adaptation)

[鄧麗君 テレサ・テン Teresa Teng  雨夜花 Rainy Night Flower (Taiwanese and Japanese)](https://youtu.be/0033HANLMvY)

The Taiwan branch of Victor Records was an equally competitive company, delegated by the influential Lin Ben Yuan Family and headed by Chang Fu-hsing. With talents such as Chen Ta-ju, Victor produced important titles such as White Peony.

This new business was led by a new generation born under Japanese rule. This generation received modern Japanese education at that time and was exposed to western musical styles and ideas. Some were active in the new music industry because of their interest in politics. Music helped them demonstrate their disapproval against the Japanese ruling and support of native culture.

However, Hokkien pop was soon set back. As Second Sino-Japanese War broke out in 1937, non-Japanese songs were banned, and talents were required to write songs (and change previous songs) for military propaganda. The situation worsened in 1941 when the Pacific War broke out. The bombings of Taiwan (called Formosa at the time) by the United States, poverty, and the shortage of raw materials greatly affected the music industry, which drove many talents away. This period ends with the end of World War II and the handover of Taiwan to the Republic of China in 1945\.

As you'll notice, these three modern arrangements of White Peony are very different. The first is upbeat, and employs a distinctly enka-esque singing style, while the last is downbeat and more delicate.

江蕙 \- 白牡丹  
[江蕙 \- 白牡丹](https://youtu.be/FiunekpW3To) (this one's from Jody Chiang or Jiang Hui (currently 61 years old), born Jiang Shuhui, who's role in Taiwan's popular music scene is often compared to that of Teresa Teng)

[鳳飛飛 \--  白牡丹](https://youtu.be/XzGSaFwAoY0) (this one's from Fong Fei-Fei (1953-2012), born Lim Chiu-Luan, known as one of the greatest singers of Taiwan)

[李碧華 \- 白牡丹](https://youtu.be/88gzK5lOYUs) (from Li Bihua (currently 61), who is popular, but hasn't reached the same international level of acclaim as the above)

1950s–1960s: Political interference and censorship
For those unaware, the February 28 incident, (aka the February 28 massacre) was an anti-government uprising in Taiwan that was violently suppressed by the Kuomintang–led nationalist government of the Republic of China. Directed by provincial governor Chen Yi and president, Chiang Kai-shek, who was still in Nanjing directing the nation and the Civil War in the Chinese mainland, thousands of civilians were killed beginning on February 28, 1947\. The number of deaths from the incident and massacre was estimated to be between 18,000 and 28,000. The incident is one of the most important events in Taiwan's modern history and was a critical impetus for the Taiwan independence movement. Following the incident was the period of time which came to be known as the White Terror.

    February 27 – May 16, 1947: In Taiwan, the White Terror is used to describe the political repression on civilians living on the island and the surrounding areas under its control by the government under the rule of the Kuomintang (KMT). The period of White Terror is generally considered to have begun when martial law was declared in Taiwan on 19 May 1949, enabled by the 1948 Temporary Provisions against the Communist Rebellion, and to have ended on 21 September 1992 with the repeal of Article 100 of the Criminal Code, which allowed for the prosecution of people for "anti-state" activities. Martial law was lifted on 15 July 1987\.

After martial law was declared, the third phase of the Chinese Civil War had begun. Taipei was proclaimed as the temporary capital of the Republic of China. All facets of Taiwanese culture that were not of Han Chinese origin were under scrutiny. In particular, the government discouraged use of Taiwanese languages. As a result, native Taiwanese pop music was no longer in development. So uh, no rec. My bad.

In the 1960s, Taiwan Television was barred from airing more than two Taiwanese pop songs a day.

