---
layout: post
title: "728:"
date: 2022-12-15
---

Nyahbinghi

Nyahbinghi (or simply Binghi) is a form and style of music performed at Rastafarian / Religious ceremonies, the style is composed of its rhythms produced by hand-drumming and vocal chanting.

Peace and Love is a 1974 by Michael George Henry OD (The Order of Distinction is the fifth order in precedence in the Jamaican honours system), better known as Ras Michael. He is a Jamaican reggae singer and Nyabinghi specialist. He also performs under the name of Dadawah.

[Dadawah \-  Peace And Love (full album)](https://youtu.be/8nFfrrN0B_Y)

Here's a RYM review from 2006 on the album:

Underappreciated, underexposed, underrated, misunderstood, Ras Michael's opus to Jah, this is the ultimate evangelical Rastafarian experience. Sparse, dark, foreboding, ominous, and ultimately uplifting, I don't think I really understood Reggae until I heard this album. Dadawah creates an intense, immediate feel, as if you are sitting just outside the group's drum circle. Ominous and beautiful piano sounds that permeate from the dark Jamaican night are coupled with Michael's calls for brotherhood and a return to Zion.  
Four songs, all 10 minutes \+ leave the uninitiated curious, and the knowing listener speechless. The length of the songs is far from a deterrent as I never fail to be sucked into the whole album from beginning to end. One of the greatest Reggae albums of all-time.

\-HarlemBrother

With that, we should have enough context to talk about reggae.

Reggae is a genre of music developed in the late 1960s in Jamaica. The genre is characterised by a 4/4 time signature, offbeat rhythms, the organ shuffle or "bubble", and staccato guitar (or piano) chords known as "skank". Reggae developed out of Ska and Rocksteady, and bears strong influences from those genres (Spaghetti Western rudeness and bravado themes, for example). Elements of American Rhythm & Blues, as well as traditional Caribbean Calypso and Mento are also present in the original reggae sound.

The Rastafari movement significantly influenced reggae's rhythm style with its ritual drumming called Nyahbinghi. Many famous reggae musicians were practicing Rastas including Bob Marley, Peter Tosh and Cedric Myton.

Contemporary reggae has spread to many countries around the world, often fusing with other regional genres. This was due largely to the worldwide success of Roots Reggae artists like Bob Marley, which inspired the Pop Reggae of artists such as Jimmy Cliff and UB40. This globalisation was also a result of Lee "Scratch" Perry and Dub's influence on Electronic music.
