---
layout: post
title: "611:"
date: 2022-08-20
---

Developing out of production techniques in the studio and on the stage, turntablism is the process of manipulating and re-appropriating vinyl records using a turntable and DJ mixer. Artists who focus specifically on this genre emphasize a use of scratching and beat juggling to mix two or more recordings into original, unique tracks. While artists like Invisibl Skratch Piklz and DJ Q-Bert helped the genre explode in the mid-1990s (though it can be traced back to before the 80s). Many turntable techniques can be traced back to the very earliest Hip Hop DJs such as Grand Wizard Theodore.

Here's a 1994 album by DJ Q-Bert: "Demolition Pumpkin Squeeze Musik"  
[THE CUTCAST: DJ QBERT ISSUE 1 \- Demolition Pumpkin Squeeze Musik](https://youtu.be/Vnqsiufbku8)

Interesting sampling, good breaks, great transitions between tracks. It's got a very 1990s feel to it. Many people find the structure of this kind of turntablism to be boring, which I can understand. It's not really the type of thing I'll listen to often, but you can tell how well-produced it is.

Illbient originated from the British and New York underground urban scene during the early to mid-1990s. The term wasn't used to describe the genre until later with producer DJ Spooky. It developed in parallel with Trip Hop and Ambient Dub, and is sometimes confused with the two. The genre had its peak during 1997-2003.

The production of illbient involves combining ambient soundscapes with hip hop drum patterns, breaks, and samples through the busy effect layering of Dub. This sampling is used to add to the genre's atmosphere, and songs are often beat and loop-based. The sound is fairly diverse in nature, since various artists experimented with other genres that include Post-Industrial (Scorn, Techno Animal), Drum and Bass (We ™, The Third Eye Foundation), and Nu Jazz (DJ Spooky That Subliminal Kid & The Blue Series Continuum, see next rec). Instrumentals are very common, with a few tracks having vocals from hip hop MCs in the cases of Techno Animal, DJ Spooky, and Spectre.
