---
layout: post
title: "675:"
date: 2022-10-23
---

That's all I'm gonna do on Doom Metal for now, but it turns out I forgot to do a pretty important subgenre of Death Metal for the recs from 666-669. Here's that now;

Melodic death metal is a style of Death Metal that utilizes the guitar harmonies and melodic sound of Heavy Metal, while keeping the main characteristics of death metal, particularly down-tuned, heavily distorted guitars and harsh, aggressive sound. Occasionally, acoustic guitars are used as well. Blast beats are used, but not quite as often as they are in death metal. Some bands also add keyboards to their music. The vocal style is usually harsh, sometimes alternating between clean and screaming parts.

Edge of Sanity's 1996 album Crimson:  
[Edge of Sanity \- Crimson (Full Album)](https://youtu.be/iPQjgt9D8vg)  
I really like this album.  
As you can tell by listening, this genre generally has a much more "epic fantasy" feeling than other Death Metal, closer to Power Metal, my favorite metal subgenre. It still has those characteristic Death Growls, and other Death Metal characteristics

Here's the last installment of the the 3 Major Chinese pop subgenres. This time it's 4 recs on Hokkein Pop (also known as Taiwanese Hokkien popular music, T-pop, Tai-pop, Minnan Pop and Taiwanese Song.  

Hokkein Pop is a popular music genre sung in Taiwanese Hokkien (Southern Min language) and produced mainly in Taiwan, most popular among the Hoklo people or Hokkien people, a Han Chinese subgroup who speak Hokkien, or trace their ancestry to southeastern Fujian, China.

I consider Hokkein Pop to be the outlier of the three c-pop genres I've covered, as it comes from a Japanese enka base instead of a Chinese shidaiqu base. Because it developed from traditional Japanese enka, it has also become diverse in its varieties. There'll only be three entries for this one.

Hokkein Pop:
