---
layout: post
title: "685:"
date: 2022-11-02
---

Second, Ewe (or Eʋe).    

The music of the Ewe people can be found in southern Togo, southeastern Ghana and southwestern Benin. Thanks to A.M. Jones' two-volume Studies in African Music, published in 1959, Ewe musical traditions are amongst the best characterized regional styles of Africa. Like other West African Music, especially Fon Music, Ewe music is percussion-driven, rhythmically complex and mostly dance-oriented. Ewe music is structurally based on cross-rhythms, mainly 3:2, but also 3:8 (kadodo bell pattern).

The central instruments of Ewe music are gongs (gankogui and atoke), rattles (axatse) and drums. Drums are classified according to their size: small (kaganu), medium-sized (kidi), large (sogo) and very large (atsimevu). The sogo and the atsimevu, together with the agboba, are the most frequent master drums, which lead the ensembles. The instrumentation varies depending on the occasion, except for the gankogui, which is the backbone of all traditional Ewe music, as it is responsible for maintaining the tempo.

Ewe musical traditions range from exclusive Yewe sacred music to everyday social dance music. It is frequent for many traditions to develop its purpose, while remaining musically unchanged (eg. war dance music becoming recreational music). Ewe ritual music was exported to the Caribbean during the Atlantic slave trade era. This lead to the creation of ceremonial music that combined Ewe traditions with Caribbean Folk Music (Haitian rada, Carriacouan arada) or Cuban Music (arará).

During the second half of the 20th century, the influence of Jazz, Pop and Funk lead to the creation of neo-traditional Ewe music styles. Representative artists include Bella Bellow (often compared to Miriam Makeba), Fifi Rafiatou and King Mensah. It is also frequent for modern Ewe artists like King Mensah to include elements of other West African traditions such as Kabye Folk Music.

From the 1969 album Ewe Music of Ghana.  
[Adzida-Afawu and Adzida](https://youtu.be/D9kr1aprYjo)

From Bella Bellow's 1977 Ewe Afro-Funk album "Album Souvenir:"  
[Denyigban](https://youtu.be/VZstln-VUsQ)

And here's a great 1976 track from Akofa Akoussah, I Tcho Tchass:  
[Akofa Akoussah \- I Tcho Tchass (Togo, 1976, Sonafric)](https://youtu.be/0SneUEoMQgE)  
It is Ewe music, but it also belongs to the genres of Afro-Funk, Chanson, and Jazz-Funk. It's got a High-life feel to it, which I'll talk about soon (before talking about disco).
