---
layout: post
title: "627:"
date: 2022-09-05
---

Elizabeth II was born in 1926, 96 years ago. She was Queen of the United Kingdom from 6 February 1952 until her death today, on 8 September 2022\. This makes her the second longest-reigning monarch in recorded history.

Queen Elizabeth’s first PM was Winston Churchill. She was there for both the creation of the EU and Brexit. She was there for the start and end of WW2 and the fall of the Soviet Union. Stalin was still alive during her reign. She served during the times of 13 US presidents, 11 Soviet and Russian leaders, 15 British prime ministers, and more than half of all Canadian prime ministers.

The Nursery Suite is one of the last compositions by immensely important English composer Edward Elgar, who famously wrote the Pomp and Circumstance Marches. It was dedicated to Princess Margaret, her older sister Princess Elizabeth (the future Queen Elizabeth II) and their mother (the Duchess of York).  
[Elgar \- Nursery Suite \- Thomson](https://youtu.be/ejYn_TvWIVc)

Even Lead Belly, a folk-blues singer who died in 1949 at the age of 60, wrote a song about her 1947 wedding  
[Lead Belly \- "Princess Elizabeth"](https://youtu.be/4IWbylHv4cQ)

She was known to have a passion for Jazz and was even flirted with by none other than Duke Ellington in 1958 at an arts festival in Yorkshire. Ellington outlined the movements of The Queen’s Suite shortly after, recorded it with his orchestra the following year, sent it to Her Majesty, and declined to release it to the public in his lifetime.  
[Duke Ellington: Queen's Suite](https://youtu.be/uIr9m1gb6VU)

The Beatles “Her Majesty” (1969), The Sex Pistols “God Save the Queen” (1977), The Smiths, “The Queen is Dead” (1986), there are songs written for and about the queen for every decade she's been alive. The vast, vast, vast majority of the people alive today have never lived in a world without Queen Elizabeth II. Crazy stuff.
