---
layout: post
title: "695:"
date: 2022-11-12
---

Maybe a bit late, but it's finally time to talk about Disco. Despite all the buildup, I'm not actually a big fan of the genre. I do think it's neat how many different influences went into it.

Disco emerged in the early 1970s as the dance music that was being played by discotheque (a club or party at which people dance to recorded pop music) DJs primarily in New York City, with the first disco club play chart appearing in 1974\. The music was characterized by the four on the floor bass drum and the prominence of sixteenth-note hi-hat with open hi-hat on the off beats. In its first decade, disco also often featured swirling strings and lush orchestrations rooted in Philly Soul.

Also key in the wide pool of influences feeding into the early disco sound were the syncopated grooves and rhythmic chicken scratch guitar of Funk, as well as rhythms and percussion drawn from Hispanic American Music and African Music, most prominently traced to Manu Dibango's “Soul Makossa,” an early hit driven by the emerging dancefloor culture (see rec 690). Further influences included the open, extended compositions of Jazz and effected atmospheres of Psychedelia, which, along with related Rock styles, were prominent on early 1970s dancefloors.

Some tracks work with conventional song structures, rooted in Pop Soul or displaying the genre's increasing overlap with Pop through the 1970s, while others emphasize instrumentals and may lack singing or include only simple and repetitive vocal lines. Among vocalists, Black female "diva" singers drawing occasionally from Gospel backgrounds, such as Gloria Gaynor and Loleatta Holloway, were especially prominent.

Here are three Disco tracks from 1979:

From Michael Jackson's Off the Wall,  
[Michael Jackson \- Off the Wall (Audio)](https://youtu.be/_BfcRjZn6y4)

From Sparks' N° 1 in Heaven,  
[The Number One Song In Heaven](https://youtu.be/o7QAuZeozFo)

From Donna Summer's Bad Girls,  
[Bad Girls](https://youtu.be/Th-Tgdkqmgw)

Like pop, disco was very much a producers' genre, where the vocalist is often the only musician with major credit. One of the most influential collaborations was the pairing of Giorgio Moroder and Donna Summer. DJs and mixers such as Larry Levan, Tom Moulton, and Walter Gibbons had a similarly important role in the genre's evolution through their pioneering of the disco remix and 12" single. Productions ranged from those using instrumentation carried over from Soul and funk such as guitars and full drum kits, especially early on in the US, to those of Euro-Disco which included more synthesizers and drum machines. These European innovations would be key in the development of Electro-Disco and Electronic Dance Music in general.

From Diana Ross, lead singer of the vocal group the Supremes, 1980 album Diana,  
[Diana Ross \- Diana (1980) Part 1 (Full Album)](https://youtu.be/9yU8j0j-8Pw)

In the 1980s, the genre would be a major influence for the ascendant Dance-Pop and Contemporary R\&B, which along with Synthpop would eclipse its dominance within popular culture. Disco itself would return to its roots in club music, its influence kept alive under the post-disco umbrella of Dance, with emergent styles including Boogie, Italo-Disco, and Hi-NRG. Also at this time, DJs such as Levan and Frankie Knuckles would begin to augment disco selections with electronic instrumentation in their pioneering of House, which would continue to reference its disco roots even after it supplanted disco as the most popular dance genre by the end of the 1980s.

Though it has never matched its 1970s peak, disco's continuing influence includes the development of Nu-Disco since the 2000s, while the late 2010s and 2020s have seen a revival of disco sounds in pop.

From Jessie Ware's 2020 Disco Dance-Pop album What's Your Pleasure?  
[What’s Your Pleasure?](https://youtu.be/_R5NMcdpuO4)

Very surprisingly, this album is ranked \#3 for 2020 or RYM. It even beat out  
Visions of Bodies Being Burned, Circles,  Alfredo, and RTJ4.

more on disco subgenres next
