---
layout: post
title: "690:"
date: 2022-11-07
---

Beginning in the 1950s, Makossa \- meaning "(I) dance" in the Duala language of Cameroon \- is a musical style which is similar to Soukous, but Makossa makes more use of a horn section and bass rhythm. It has its origins in Kossa, a type of dance associated with the Duala people, and has also taken influence from various modern styles such as Jazz, Highlife and Rumba cubana. By far the most famous Makossa musician is Manu Dibango, whose single Soul Makossa became a massive international hit and was a key point in the development of Disco.  
Soul Makossa

You may have heard or seen this album from your youtube sidebar.  
[Manu Dibango \- Soul Makossa (Full Album)](https://youtu.be/4-pkgVyhIuU)

O Boso, the 1972 Makossa, Jazz-Funk, Jazz Fusion, Afro-Funk album by Manu Dibango.  
I found it a really fun listen.

the song Soul Makossa's hook was ripped off without permission by Michael Jackson (who was a big fan of Manu) and Rihanna. The whole album is actually one of the most impactful African releases of all time, not only claimed to be one of the forerunners to disco, but also an influence on American jazz artists like Herbie Hancock (who later appeared on Manu's Electric Africa), funk bands like Kool & The Gang or even hip hop acts like Poor Righteous Teachers. Manu also had a huge impact on the local Cameroonian music scene, popularizing the genre of makossa, which dominated the music of Cameroon throughout the 70s and 80s.










Can't believe I haven't heard this before  
From The 6th Formant, a 2017 rearrangement album including new arrangements of some of Hirasawa's older works  
[平沢進・第6フォルマント「コヨーテ」](https://youtu.be/yXb94ZT4gHA?list=RDT_swDiFiOq8)

even more of a banger than the 1989 version from Jikū no Mizu
