---
layout: post
title: "705:"
date: 2022-11-22
---

Lounge is a style of Easy Listening that emerged in the USA during the 1950s. It emphasizes a tranquil, 'chilled-out' atmosphere with light arrangements and instrumentation derived from forms of Jazz and Traditional Pop. Other sources of inspiration include background incidental music, Light Music, Swing and Hispanic American Music, on top of the general practice of covers and instrumental versions.

Compared with other easy listening styles, lounge emphasizes a comparatively less zany or adventurous sound, with less reliance on eclectic arrangements and Sounds and Effects. Common instruments and musical features include ice cold piano (akin to Cool Jazz), vibraphones, xylophone, Hammond organ and mild percussion, on top of the usage of light Big Band idioms and orchestration. If vocals are employed, the 'lounge singer' often performs in a Vocal Jazz-esque 'crooner' style or a set of 'backing' vocals act as the lead voice.

The term lounge has been applied retroactively since the 1980s and stems from its historical usage in the lounge areas of hotels, bars, casinos and restaurants. Lounge music has unfavorably both been referred to as and compared to the concept of 'elevator music' and 'muzak', intending to act as 'sonic wallpaper' whilst listeners are sitting, talking or relaxing. Lounge is often combined with similarly relaxing styles Downtempo, Bossa nova and Deep House

I'm partial to Lounge music in a jazz or samba styles, so here are a couple of those:

From Oh, Good Grief\! by Vince Guaraldi (1968)  
[Oh, Good Grief](https://youtu.be/s6Zg7sKuwUk) (Jazz Pop / Cool Jazz)

From Herb Alpert Presents Sergio Mendes & Brasil '66 by Sergio Mendes & Brasil '66 (1966)  
[Sergio Mendes & Brasil '66 \- Herb Alpert Presents ...... (1966) Part 2 (Full Album)](https://youtu.be/aZrYSAhcpIM) (Bossa-Nova / Samba-jazz)

Here's a less traditionally lounge album, but still recognizeably so.  
Humming Urban Stereo \- Baby Love (2007)  
[허밍어반스테레오(Humming Urban Stereo) \- Baby Love (2007) \[Full Album\]](https://youtu.be/LPICjyauinQ?t=1774)

I'm including it because I love wacky albums and I would consider this to be one. A blend of Dance-Pop, Lounge, Disco, Bossa nova, Cocktail Nation, Shibuya-kei, Acid Jazz, and others. Each track has something interesting to offer.
