---
layout: post
title: "635:"
date: 2022-09-13
---

1950s–1960s: The Hong Kong era

In 1949, the People's Republic of China was established by the Communist party, and in 1952 popular music was denounced by the PRC government as Yellow Music, a form of pornography. In the mainland, the communist regime began to suppress popular music and promote revolutionary marches. China Record Corporation became the only music recording industry body in China, and for many years Minyue (National Music) and revolutionary music were about the only kinds of music to be recorded there.

Pathé Records moved its operation from Shanghai to Hong Kong. Stars from Shanghai continued to record songs in Hong Kong, and Shanghai-style music remained popular in Hong Kong until the mid-1960s. Mandarin pop music in Hong Kong began to move away from its Shanghai roots. Partly as a consequence of having fewer good songwriters, some songs of this period were adaptations of English or other-language songs such as the Indonesian song "Bengawan Solo" and the Latin-American song "Historia de un Amor".

[Bengawan Solo \- Chan Yung Yung](https://youtu.be/0H_1goAVTQc)

As the style evolved, the sound of popular songs from the Hong Kong era therefore became distinct from Shanghai's. Among the recording artists of note to emerge in this period were Tsui Ping, Tsin Ting, Grace Chang, Fong Tsin Ying and Liu Yun, some of whom were also actresses. While some actresses continued to sing in their films, some of the best known songs were dubbed by other singers, for example "Unforgettable Love" in the film of the same name starring Lin Dai was sung by Koo Mei.

[不了情 (1961 Love Without End) 顧媚 Bu Liao Qing มีแปลซับไทย](https://youtu.be/r9HyJCKeJbY)

Shanghai-style Mandarin pop songs however began to decline in popularity around the mid-1960s as Western pop music became popular among the young. This in turn gave way to pop songs recorded in Cantonese as Cantopop became the dominant genre of music from Hong Kong in the 1970s. (More on that later)

After the Communist victory in China, the Kuomintang retreated to Taiwan. Taiwanese youth were drawn to popular styles from abroad; as Taiwan was ruled by Japan from 1895 to 1945, Taiwanese pop songs in the Hokkien dialect, the mother tongue of most of the island's residents, were particularly strongly influenced by Japanese Enka music (see recs 178, 503). More on Hokkein Pop in the future. Popular Mandarin songs from Taiwan were similarly influenced, and many popular Mandarin songs of the 1960s were adaptations of Japanese songs, for example "Hard to Forget the Thought" ("意難忘", originally "Tokyo Serenade". Popular songs were necessarily sung in Mandarin as Taiwan's new rulers, which imposed martial law in Taiwan in 1949, mandated its use as well as restricting the use of Taiwanese Hokkien and forbidding the use of Japanese. The Mandarin pop music developed in Taiwan that would become modern Mandopop is a blend of traditional Chinese, Japanese, Taiwanese, as well as Western musical styles. Zi Wei was the earliest of the Taiwan-based stars who achieved success outside of Taiwan in the late 1950s with the song "Green Island Serenade".

[Tse Wei ( Zi Wei ) Green Island Serenade  紫薇-綠島小夜曲 1961](https://youtu.be/ZY24mfMqNz0)

In the 1960s, regional centers of Chinese pop music also started to emerge in overseas Chinese communities in Malaysia and Singapore.

636  
1970s–1980s: Rise of Taiwanese Mandopop  
In the 1970s, Taipei began to take center stage as Cantopop took hold in Hong Kong. In 1966, the Taiwan music industry was generating US$4.7 million annually, and this had grown exponentially through the 1970s and 1980s. By 1996, it peaked at just under US$500 million. The success of the Taiwanese film industry also helped with the popularity of its singers. Taiwanese stars such as Tsai Chin, Fei Yu-ching, and Fong Fei Fei became increasingly popular, with Teresa Teng the best known. However, the importance of Hong Kong as a center meant that some of these Taiwanese stars such as Teresa Teng were still Hong Kong-based.

"The Moon Represents My Heart" \- Teresa Teng  
[Teresa Teng \- The moon represents my heart](https://youtu.be/pEGKZj3xfwo)  
A short clip of one of the best known songs of the 1970s "The Moon Represents My Heart" by Teresa Teng. Teresa Tang, who died in 1995 at just age 45, was a Taiwanese singer, actress, musician and philanthropist. Referred to by some as "Asia's eternal queen of pop," Teng became a cultural icon for her contributions to Mandopop, giving birth to the phrases, "Wherever there are Chinese people, there is the music of Teresa Teng," and "By day, Deng Xiaoping rules China. But by night, Deng Lijun (Teresa Teng) rules." She is cited by many as one of the most successful Asian artists of all time.

Teresa Teng made Mandopop a true mainstay by crossing over to mainland China after Deng Xiaoping came to power and instituted the open door policy in 1978 that allowed cultural products from Hong Kong and Taiwan to enter China. Teng's song became popular there despite an early ban on her songs by the PRC government for being "Bourgeois Music". Her "soft, sweet, often whispery and restrained" singing style in romantic songs made a strong impact in mainland China where revolutionary songs were previously prevalent. The ban on Teng was lifted in 1986 and songs from Hong Kong and Taiwan, called gangtai music, became more popular within mainland China.

During the 1970s and early 1980s, a different generation of Taiwanese singers and/or songwriters such as Chyi Yu, Hou Dejian, and Lo Ta-yu emerged, some of whom were influenced by folk rock and whose music may be termed "campus folk music". One of the most successful songs of the era was Lo Ta-yu's 1985 song "Tomorrow Will Be Better", which was inspired by the American song "We Are the World" and originally performed by 60 singers. It quickly became a hit throughout Asia and established itself as a standard.

[【明天會更好 Tomorrow Will Be Better】Official Music Video](https://youtu.be/s6T4DXRKYHM)

Male singers became popular at the point. By around 1980, the term Mandopop began to be used for the Chinese popular music that had emerged in this period. Many Cantopop songs of the period were also sung in Mandarin by the same singers.

At this point, the recording industry in Singapore in particular thrived. In 1979, Singapore launched the Speak Mandarin Campaign to promote the use of Mandarin over the range of Chinese dialects spoken by various segments of the ethnic-Chinese population. Mandarin songs, already a strong presence on radio stations and on television, further eroded the popularity of Hokkien and Cantonese songs in the media. In the 1980s, a genre of Mandarin ballads called xinyao developed in Singapore by singers/songwriters.

In mainland China, the music industry was freed from state restriction in 1978, and regional recording companies were established in Guangzhou, Shanghai and Beijing in the 1980s with local singers. Pop music in China in this period was dominated by Mandopop songs from Taiwan and Cantopop from Hong Kong, however the 1980s saw the beginning of rock music in China, with the emergence of singer-songwriters such as Cui Jian.
