---
layout: post
title: "708:"
date: 2022-11-25
---

Cocktail Nation was a decidedly ironic take on Lounge that emerged in the early 1990s.

The Cocktail Nation was a scene connected to the nascent Alternative Rock movement that arose in the early 1990s in the United States, when some associated artists became interested in the Easy Listening music of the 1950s and 1960s, particularly the vocal Lounge style but also incorporating elements of the surreal and comic atmosphere of Space Age Pop and the faux-foreign sonic palette of Exotica. Combustible Edison would come to define the movement in the early to mid-1990s as they released their debut I, Swinger on the influential indie label Sub Pop Records in 1994, coupled with the 'First Manifesto of the Cocktail Nation': "We, the Citizens of the Cocktail Nation, do hereby declare our independence from the desiccated horde of mummified uniformity \- our freedom from an existence of abject swinglessness. We pledge to revolt against the void of dictated sobriety and to cultivate not riches but richness, swankness, suaveness and strangeness, with pleasure and boldness for all. BE FABULOUS." As this 'manifesto' indicated, the movement was coupled with a romanticised 'cocktail lifestyle', closely intertwined with the Swing Revival movement that arose around the same time.

As the decade wore on, the movement would also come to include the exotica-focused style of Don Tiki as well as artists bringing in more modern influences, like the Downtempo-based Tipsy. It would also have an influence on the decidedly less ironic Chamber Pop style in the 1990s, plus the similar Japanese Shibuya-kei movement which, among other things, also had a fascination with lounge music.

Various Cocktail Nation tracks:

[Tipsy \- Trip Tease \- 01 \- Mr. Excitement](https://youtu.be/7l2W9IsUUKU)  
[Showroom Dummies](https://youtu.be/gHvRlR7v5CQ)
