---
layout: post
title: "717:"
date: 2022-12-04
---

Punjabi folk music covers the diverse styles from the Punjabi people (mostly from the Punjab regions of India and Pakistan), often played with traditional instruments. Common percussion instruments include the dhol, chimta, bugchu, dhad and khartal, while melodic instruments include the tumbi, sarangi and alghoza. The use of "pitcher" instruments such as the gagar and gharha is also common.

Lyrics often relate to Punjabi lifestyle, history and culture but may also involve recitations of traditional poems and stories including Heer Ranjha and Mirza Sahiba. Part of the Punjabi musical routine heavily involves performing specific forms of songs related to a certain point in life, which include birth, marriage, love, death and ritual songs. For example, suhag songs are performed at wedding ceremonies. Other types for certain kinds of festivities (including the harvest festival) like giddha, lohri, maghi, and visakhi are largely common. Bhangra originated as a folk style celebrating the harvest festival, but later expanded into a more mainstream offshoot which took influence from modern western genres.

Aside from bhangra, other specific styles include giddha, a percussive folk-dance by women, and jhumar, another rhythmic style which is slower than bhangra and often danced by groups of men.

There's obviously a lot of ground to cover for this genre, and it's time-consuming to find high-quality recordings. For now, just a couple Punjabi Folk songs:

[Music from The Santal Tribe recorded by the late Deben Bhattacharya...](https://youtu.be/9ZP34yxJgcI) (recorded 1954 \- 1973\)  
[eeh Wasaiyo \- Aahe Arman Ajeebon](https://youtu.be/gs7k_QR_1h8) (released 2017\)

This works pretty well lol.  
[Das main ki pyar wichon khatya (\#Sunno Flip) \- Yamla Jatt & GHAURI | Punjabi Bass Trap](https://youtu.be/6m0Uv9WLMgA)
