---
layout: post
title: "630:"
date: 2022-09-08
---

Techno kayō is a Japanese Pop genre that developed as the Idol kayō scene was growing in Japan in the early 1980s. The genre is recognizable by its Synthpop production, more commonly known as 'テクノポップ' (technopop) in Japan, and its incorporation into the idol pop scene. It originated during the transition from Kayōkyoku (See recs 503, 512, 513\) as the dominant form of pop music in Japan to what would later be known as J-Pop and, as such, it takes influence from a wide variety of pop music produced during this time period. Because of this, techno kayō \- along with idol kayō \- are generally regarded as the direct precursors to J-pop.

Aside from being known for being populated near-exclusively by idols, its songs were also mostly written or produced by third parties, many of these being the members of Yellow Magic Orchestra (I mentioned one member, Ryuichi Sakamoto, on recs 350 and 427).

There's a lot of really, really interesting music from the genre that I'll split across a few recs. For now, two very different albums I love that each represent almost opposite moods you'll sometimes hear with the genre (basically, cool vs. quirky, to oversimplify).

From 1985, エスプレッソ (Espresso) by ラジ \[Rajie\].  
[Rajie (ラジ) \- Espresso (エスプレッソ, 1985 \- Art Pop, New Wave, City Pop)](https://youtu.be/K7v_clIFE60?t=559) (lush, introspective, wintry, romantic)

From 1981, ただいま。 (Tadaima.) by 矢野顕子 \[Akiko Yano\].  
[矢野顕子 \[Akiko Yano\] \- ただいま。 (Tadaima.) \[FULL ALBUM\]](https://youtu.be/k6aYndLoZGs) (quirky, playful, surreal)  
Talk about Baggy, and post some album covers for it.
