---
layout: post
title: "681:"
date: 2022-10-29
---

Talking Heads were an American rock band formed in 1975 in New York City and active until 1991\. The band was composed of Scottish-born David Byrne (lead vocals, guitar), Chris Frantz (drums), Tina Weymouth (bass) and Jerry Harrison (keyboards, guitar). Described as "one of the most critically acclaimed bands of the '80s", the group helped to pioneer new wave music by integrating elements of punk, art rock, funk, and world music with an anxious, clean-cut image.

You've very likely heard their most popular songs, Psycho Killer, Once in a Lifetime, Burning Down the House, etc.

Stop Making Sense is a 1984 American concert film featuring a live performance by the American rock band Talking Heads. Directed by Jonathan Demme, it was shot over the course of three nights at Hollywood's Pantages Theater in December 1983, as the group was touring to promote their new album Speaking in Tongues. The concert serves as a comprehensive retrospective of the band's history to that time, featuring many of their popular songs from their first hit single "Psycho Killer", through to their most recent album. The film is the first made entirely using digital audio techniques. The band raised the budget of $1.2 million themselves.

Stop Making Sense is considered by many critics to be one of the greatest concert films of all time. Leonard Maltin called it "one of the greatest rock movies ever made", Robert Christgau "the finest concert film", and Pauline Kael "close to perfection". It is considered a cult classic.

In 2021, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".

[Talking Heads \- \[4k Remaster\] \- Stop Making Sense  (Full Show)](https://youtu.be/-oVami1uT7Q)

This one's a long watch for sure, and it certainly isn't for everyone. That said, it is for those interested in the unique New Wave, Post-Punk, Mutant Disco sound of Talking Heads. Important music history.

[Talking Heads \- \[4k Remaster\] \- Stop Making Sense  (Full Show)](https://youtu.be/-oVami1uT7Q)

With each successive song, Byrne is joined by more members of the band: first by Tina Weymouth for "Heaven". Both the sound and visuals gradually develop over the course of the film, starting with Byrne on a bare stage, and by the end becoming a crowded, spectacular, colorful display.

The film includes Byrne's "big suit", an absurdly large business suit that he wears for the song "Girlfriend Is Better". The suit was partly inspired by Noh theatre styles, and became an icon not only of the film – as it appears on the movie poster, for instance – but of Byrne himself. Byrne said: "I was in Japan in between tours and I was checking out traditional Japanese theater – Kabuki, Noh, Bunraku – and I was wondering what to wear on our upcoming tour. A fashion designer friend (Jurgen Lehl) said in his typically droll manner, 'Well David, everything is bigger on stage.' He was referring to gestures and all that, but I applied the idea to a businessman's suit."

Next rec I'll talk more about New Wave in order to categorize the sound of this film and Talking Heads' music. You may be able to pick up on some of the genre's many influences already. After that I'll talk about Mutant Disco.
