---
layout: post
title: "629:"
date: 2022-09-07
---

As mentioned in the previous rec, Dreamcast Summer Songs is Barrington Devaughn Hendricks' 4th (afaik) album, released in 2012 and preceding The Ghost\~Pop Tape.

This one belongs to the primary genres of Instrumental Hip Hop and Plunderphonics, and secondary genres of Experimental Hip Hop, Jazz Rap, and Vaporwave. Obviously, it's a lot jazzier than the previous rec, but you can also hear a lot more of that slowed-down, lofi-style of hip hop and R\&B that became immensely popular in the following years, which many say Hendricks invented.  

If The Ghost\~Pop Tape evokes lonely night rain, Dreamcast Summer Songs is evocative of memories of Warm summer days, shortly before sunset. Maybe spent playing games, or out with friends.

[DREAMCAST SUMMER SONGS ✮ \[FULL ALBUM\]](https://youtu.be/Ljq8x3pr3jU?t=589) (If nothing else, I recommend listening to this full track, 07\. $tack Bundle$, which goes from 9:46 to 12:17. Track 09\. Symone \- 14:06 to 18:00 is another of my favorites)

Whether it was the first vaporwave album, whether its vaporwave at all, it is certainly good music.

Coincidentally, it's got one of my favorite tracklists name-wise  
01\. \#whatshappening \- 0:04  
02\. LP, LP, Forward, LK, FP \- 2:55  
03\. Gameshark \- 3:56  
04\. Jet Grind Radio \- 5:08  
05\. Crazy Taxi \- 5:55

SET 2 \- BLOODY ROAR ☢ (7:20)  
06\. Full Metal Panic \- 7:20  
07\. $tack Bundle$ \- 9:49

SET 3 \- GUILTY GEAR ☪ (12:17)  
08\. That-Man (Rideou Da Lightunignnnnn) \- 12:17  
09\. Symone \- 14:06

SET 4 \- PHANTASY STAR ☫ (18:00)  
10\. Haruhi Hates Thunder \- 18:00  
11\. We ♥ Nuja \- 18:34

SET 5 \- CHUCHU ROCKET ☃ (20:58)  
12\. Space Channel 5 \- 20:58  
13\. Cannon Spike \- 23:42  
14\. How I Met Nola Darling... \- 27:05  
15\. Ms. Robinson \- 31:40

SET 6 \- CODE: VERONICA ✖ (34:20)  
16\. Buster Wolf (Are You OK?) \- 34:20  
17\. LOL: Lack of Love \- 37:28  
18\. Shenmue \- 40:42
