---
layout: post
title: "684:"
date: 2022-11-01
---

First, Dagomba (aka Dagbamba).

The music of the Dagomba people of northern Ghana encompasses various musical traditions that have been passed from generation to generation for hundreds of years. Dagomba music is sung in their native language, Dagbani, and its main instruments are drums and string instruments. Drums are the broadest and most important instrumental group and they have defined ceremonial purposes. The lunga (talking drum) and the gungon (bass drum) are the most essential types of Dagomba drums. Dagomba drummers, lunsi, are considered royalty and they have a hierarchical system of chieftaincy. String instruments, especially the gondze, are also prominent, while aerophones and idiophones have a secondary role as accompaniment.

Several recordings of Dagomba music were released during the second half of the 20th century, including Music of the Dagomba From Ghana and the Master Drummers of Dagbon series by Alhaji Ibrahim Abdulai. Like other West African Music genres it has drawn academic interest together with other aspects of the Dagomba culture.

Here's a track from the the 1978 compilation album Music of the Dagomba From Ghana.  
[Gondze Praise Music (2)](https://youtu.be/EiNWloUe4aY)

Here's a track from a recently recorded Dagomba release, the sixth release from Glitterbeat's acclaimed Hidden Musics series.

Raw and celebratory funeral music from northern Ghana. Recorded 100% live and outdoors by Ian Brennan (Tinariwen, Ustad Saami). From the 2020 album Funeral Songs:  
[fra fra \- Destiny (Orphans)](https://youtu.be/XzumBEjraSQ)
