---
layout: post
title: "716:"
date: 2022-12-03
---

New Romanticism was a cultural movement popularized in the UK between 1979 and 1984\. It has its origins in the Blitz, a small club in Covent Garden, London. On Tuesday nights, the Blitz hosted events where records by Glam Rock acts such as David Bowie and Roxy Music were played. Frequent attendants of this club were labeled “Blitz Kids” by the press; notable members included Midge Ure and Boy George. The defining feature of the New Romantic movement was its distinctive fashion sense. New Romantics often wore clothes inspired by past fashion trends, including poet shirts, aristocratic garb, and androgynous makeup.

While the New Romantic movement was primarily defined by fashion, out of it arose a distinct style of music which grew out of New Wave (rec 682). This style was wide-ranging in its influences, but was defined by heavy use of synthesizers, often overlapping with Synthpop, as well as a clear glam influence, particularly being influenced by the aforementioned Roxy Music. Acts such as Spandau Ballet, Duran Duran, and Visage defined the style with a more refined, yet poppy sound compared to most of their new wave peers. By 1984, the New Romantic movement had declined due to increased backlash against its decadent style, as well as the rise in popularity of genres such as Jangle Pop (rec 711\) and Indie Pop.

From Argentinian band Virus' 1985 album Locura  
[Virus \- Luna de Miel en la Mano (Official Audio)](https://youtu.be/mQNqA3WHaZE)

From UK band Roxy Music's 1982 album Avalon  
[More Than This](https://youtu.be/wwXtPu-iA4Q)

From Japanese artist Yukihiro Takahashi's 1981 album Neuromantic. This one can also be considered Techno kayō (see rec 630\)  
[Yukihiro Takahashi 高橋幸宏 \- Drip Dry Eyes](https://youtu.be/zbdw9ujyAdY)

The next series of recs will lead, via a very twisty trail, to the genres of reggaeton and neoperreo.
