---
layout: post
title: "721:"
date: 2022-12-08
---

Calypso is the most prominent 20th century musical style in the islands of Trinidad and Tobago. The instrumentation is primarily percussion and a brass section. Vocals can describe carnival partying or involve pointed social commentary. The political aspect of calypso caused successive bans on different percussion materials in the early 20th century leading to the introduction of the steel pan into calypso bands in the 1930s.

Although recordings of calypso music outside of Trinidad and Tobago have always been common, calypso gained a broad audience in the US and UK in the mid-20th century thanks to several celebrated songs and artists. In 1944, Lord Invader's song Rum and Coca Cola was recorded without permission by the The Andrews Sisters and spent 10 weeks at \#1 on the US pop charts.

The two version's of Rum and Coca Cola:  
[Lord Invader \- Rum and coca cola (audio)](https://youtu.be/nMWUF3LYd88) (1943)  
[The Andrews Sisters \- Rum and Coca Cola](https://youtu.be/zGxL2uNr7bk) (1944)

In 1957, Harry Belafonte, a New Yorker with West Indian roots, made the first million-selling album, simply titled Calypso, propelled by the hit Banana Boat (Day-O). The broad commercial success of calypso outside of Trinidad and Tobago was not long lasting, but it remained popular in the West Indies and influenced other musical genres including Ska and Mento and evolved in the late-20th century into Soca (Soul and calypso) and Spouge (Ska and calypso).

Banana Boat (Day-O) / Star-O from Calypso (1956)  
[Day O (Banana Boat Song)](https://youtu.be/YO7M0Hx_1D8)
