---
layout: post
title: "741:"
date: 2022-12-28
---

Moombahton

Moombahton is an Electronic Dance Music genre that emerged from Dutch House in 2009\. It is characterized by a midrange tempo around 100-110 BPM, hard kicks, high-pitched leads and dembow rhythms influenced by Reggaetón. Dave Nada first pioneered the genre by slowing down the tempo of Afrojack's remix of "Moombah\!" to 108 BPM (hence its portmanteau name):  
[Silvio Ecomo & Chuckie \- Moombah (Afrojack Remix)](https://youtu.be/3N1OQvJ5v2k)

The basis was expanded in 2010 with the release of his Moombahton EP, and many releases by other artists, most notably Munchi and Dillon Francis, who further established it as a distinct style. Diplo's label Mad Decent played a significant role in popularizing moombahton, with himself and other big artists trying their hands at the new genre:  
From 2015, Major Lazer & DJ Snake \- Lean On:  
[Major Lazer & DJ Snake \- Lean On (feat. MØ) (Official Music Video)](https://youtu.be/YqeW9_5kURI)  
3.3 billion views on this video now

Despite not being a particularly big genre, moombahton went on to become influential, quickly spawning and inspiring other developments. Most notably, Moombahcore emerged a few months later as an offshoot distinguished by heavier, Brostep-influenced sound design. Another, smaller subgenre would be known as moombahsoul, pioneered by David Heartbreak, which evolved the sound into a more soulful, Deep House-influenced direction, sometimes predicting elements of certain Tropical House strains that would establish a few years after. Moombahton was also influential to the emergence of Trap \[EDM\], especially Twerk which it often crosses over with due to the same BPM range. Years after its early-2010s peak, moombahton would continue to be commonly incorporated into tracks and sets from various EDM genres, most commonly trap, Big Room House and Jungle Terror, particularly in the case of artists associated with Barong Family.

From 2011, Skrillex \- Reptile's Theme:  
[Skrillex \- Reptile](https://youtu.be/DpS7nCweYZI)
