---
layout: post
title: "722:"
date: 2022-12-09
---

Mento music's origins lay in 19th century Jamaica. In the early 1950s the first true mento recordings appeared on 78 RPM shellacs. Original mento music is the acoustic, folksy rural style but in the golden era of mento a more fashionable urban style was played in hotels and tourist resorts by Jamaican dance bands.

Typical instruments are the banjo, an acoustic guitar, the hand-made bamboo saxophone, a clarinet or flute made from bamboo, various hand percussion instruments and the rumba box. A significant number of songs antedated the later Reggae beat and appeared like an acoustic antiquated kind of Reggae.

An earlier (1954) adaptation of the same vernacular Jamaican work song from the previous rec (Banana Boat (Day-O))  
[Louise Bennett \- Day Dah Light](https://youtu.be/KffCy8iFU8Q)

From a 1975 album by Cedric 'Im' Brooks and the Divine Light  
[Put It On](https://youtu.be/88WcYaZ85hs)  
We're continuing from what we started on rec 717, on the way to Reggae now. We'll be taking a short detour to look at Ska and some of its derivative forms.

Ska originated in Jamaica in the late 1950s, developing out of Jazz and Rhythm & Blues (specifically New Orleans R\&B and Jump Blues (more on this later)), combined with local Mento and Calypso styles. The original Jamaican Ska developed ska as a genre that focused on off-beat rhythms, and utilised horn sections, busy bass lines, and smooth vocal harmonies.

Towards the mid-1960s, this ska mentality was combined with various Soul styles and developed into the slower Rocksteady genre. This development, alongside the growth of the ska movement, also lead to the creation of Reggae in the late 1960s. In the 1970s, British musicians who had grown up listening to the original form of ska developed their own revival sound in 2 Tone. Following this, in the mid-to-late 1980s, bands in North America revived the genre once again \- influenced by the British 2 tone \- to create the Third Wave Ska movement. Both of these movements drew influence from Punk music, and eventually the third wave spawned the Ska Punk style.

Throughout all of these changes, ska became a worldwide phenomenon with many distinct styles. All forms of ska are unified in the use of the off-beat focus, and have a tendency to include chop-style guitar work. Ska is typically played at a lively tempo and is meant to be danceable.
