---
layout: post
title: "703:"
date: 2022-11-20
---

Nu-Disco is a term describing a 21st-century musical trend of renewed interest in the instrumental techniques and aesthetics of 1970s and 1980s Disco, including both Electro-Disco styles as well as Euro-Disco and Boogie. Its roots can be traced to disco re-edits pioneered in the mid-1990s by the British DJs including DJ Harvey and Faze Action through labels Black Cock Records and Nuphonic. While the term was also occasionally used for the American-born disco house and Funky House, as well as French House, in the 2000s it was established for the separately-developing trend distinctive from these House styles. In contrast to disco house, nu-disco attempts to recreate original disco aesthetics, grooves, and instrumental techniques instead of just looping and processing disco samples. The songs apply modern, polished Electronic production into organic, lively beats and structures of traditional disco, as opposed to typical house grooves and structures of disco house, funky house and french house. That being said, nu-disco may sometimes be influenced by these house styles.

No one hasn't heard this. Random Access Memories, Daft Punk's 2013 album is a pretty good example of Nu-Disco  
[Get Lucky](https://youtu.be/4D7u5KF7SP8)

From Kylie Minogue's 2001 album Fever. This one also belongs to the genre of Funky House, which places funky, warm, catchy basslines on top of looped Funk or Disco samples, resulting in an upbeat, bouncy, and pacy groove.  
[Can't Get You out of My Head](https://youtu.be/uYANAvwvPBg)

And thats it for Disco stuff, for a while at least. I've been working through disco since rec 684, which makes almost 20 recs minus that one Math Rock album in-between, definitely the most recs I've dedicated to a genre in sequence. I think it shows well just how much music can evolve and diverge in a short amount of time, and just how old the roots of the genres people listen to are.
