---
layout: post
title: "645:"
date: 2022-09-23
---

Harddance is an umbrella term for EDM genres emerging in the 1990s, mainly developed out of Hard Trance and UK Hard House; usually characterized by fast tempos, hard kick drums and a "bouncy" syncopated groove. Shared features of these genres include hard-hitting four-on-the-floor kicks, heavy off-beat bass, usually faster tempos in the 140 BPM plus range, Trance-influenced buildup-drop structures, and often hi-hats on every offbeat. These styles are generally repetitive and rave-focused, and can vary in atmosphere from being dark and aggressive (such as Nu Style Gabber) to having a more playful and uplifting, party-like sound, often taking influence from Happy Hardcore.

While hard dance music takes influence from a wide variety of sources, its most central and distinctive characteristic is its "bouncy" syncopated groove, which features a heavy (sometimes distorted) four on the floor kick drum and bass on the off-beats. Earlier forms of hard dance typically use off-beat bass, where the bass is a distinct stab from the kick.

Here's a recent Hard Dance album, Harlecore by Danny L Harle, which came out 2021\. Arguably more UK Hardcore influence than other genres.

I'm recommending this album mainly because of how absolutely wacko wacky it is. The whole narrative thing is just for the BBC Radio 1 show version.  
[The Harlecore Experience \[BBC Radio 1 full show\]](https://youtu.be/4wHuHQQCjZg?t=732)

dewtaylo described it very succinctly:  
"Every trashy late 90s/early 2000s electro influence mashed together into something infinitely danceable. One part Darude, one part Crazy Frog, one part Cascada. I oscillate between finding this very cheesy/wanting nothing to do with this and then actually listening to it and remembering how fun it is. Yes it's grating, but give in to your urges. Honorable mention on my AOTY 2021 list. 3.50 stars"

Here's an arguably more accessible track from Harle, remixed by Flume.  
[Danny L Harle & DJ Danny \- On A Mountain (Flume Remix) \[Official Full Stream\]](https://youtu.be/C0I60kpUPmU)  
amen break alert 1:25 \!\!\!

Time for the continuations of the Chinese pop recs from 633 to 638\. Last time I talked about Mandopop, and this time I'll talk about Cantopop, or HK-pop (Hong-Kong pop).

I'll focus a bit more on music for film and TV for most of these recs.

Cantopop:
