---
layout: post
title: "729:"
date: 2022-12-16
---

Roots Reggae

Roots reggae is a style of Reggae that is primarily defined through the political, spiritual and socially conscious messages of its lyrics. Common themes are social injustice and ghetto life, Jamaica's colonial past and slavery, Rastafarian faith and repatriation to Africa. Common musical traits include the use of minor key melodies, hypnotic, repetitive rhythms, or forceful and militant "rockers" rhythms, Nyahbinghi drumming, heavy horns, plaintive, wailing vocals, or sweet vocal harmonies, as well as experimentation with Dub techniques.

The golden age of roots reggae was the 1970s, when it was the dominant style in Jamaica, and gained worldwide popularity through artists like Bob Marley, Peter Tosh, Burning Spear and Culture. In the late 70s/early 80s, roots reggae was replaced by Dancehall as the dominant sound in reggae, but it survived as a more underground style, which still finds worldwide audiences. In the mid-1990s, there was a resurgence of roots music in Jamaica, when popular dancehall artists adopted more conscious lyrical themes.

A couple Root Reggae songs from Bob Marley & The Wailers.  
[Three Little Birds](https://youtu.be/MUNNRAdizz0) (1977)  
[Stir It Up (1973) \- Bob Marley & The Wailers](https://youtu.be/1hwL3S3Gtzs) (1973)

Robert Nesta Marley OM (The Order of Merit is part of the Jamaican honours system, and it is the fourth-highest honour awarded by the nation of Jamaica.) was a Jamaican singer, musician, and songwriter. Considered one of the pioneers of reggae, his musical career was marked by fusing elements of reggae, ska, and rocksteady, as well as his distinctive vocal and songwriting style.
