---
layout: post
title: "665:"
date: 2022-10-13
---

Indeterminancy  
(AKA Aleatoric Music Chance Music)

A style of music that leaves elements of composition, performance, or both, up to chance. Charles Ives is often credited as one of the earliest significant users of indeterminacy in music, found in many of his compositions in the early 20th century. During the 1930s, Henry Cowell adopted some of Ives’ ideas and incorporated them into his own works, most famously with his work String Quartet No. 3, which allows the performers to arrange fragments of the composition in a variety of possible sequences.

The style saw a large growth in activity thanks to the artists of the so-called “New York School”, an informal group of American artists in the 1950s and 1960s that drew heavily from a variety of avant-garde art movements.

Earle Brown, Morton Feldman, Christian Wolff, and John Cage are considered some of the key figures of the New York School in relation to indeterminacy, the last of which often being considered one of the leading pioneers of the style, with his composition 4'33" arguably being the most famous indeterminacy piece to date.

[John Cage's 4'33"](https://youtu.be/JTEFKFiXSx4)  
[John Cage: 4'33'' / Petrenko · Berliner Philharmoniker](https://youtu.be/AWVUp12XPpU?t=181)

More indeterminancy:  
Aus den sieben Tagen is a collection of 15 text compositions by Karlheinz Stockhausen, composed in May 1968, in reaction to a personal crisis, and characterized as "Intuitive music" \- music produced primarily from the intuition rather than the intellect of the performer.      
[Stockhausen \- aus den sieben tagen / complete / 1993](https://youtu.be/e9nJIY4o7l0?t=9990)

I've talked about heavy metal on numerous occasions now, including heavy metal subgenres like punk metal (213), prog metal (222), power metal (300), neoclassical metal (301), symphonic metal (302), drone metal/post metal (428), alternative metal (434), depressive black metal (601), atmospheric black metal (602), symphonic black metal (603), pagan black metal (604), melodic black metal (605), viking metal (606), and trap metal (622).

There's still a lot to go. As such, these following recs, starting with rec 666, will be on Death Metal genres and a few other heavy metal subgenres I've been saving.

Death metal is a style of extreme Metal that features distorted, commonly down-tuned guitars playing palm-muted and tremolo-picked riffs and double-kicked percussion that utilizes various blast beat techniques. Chromatic chord progressions and abrupt changes in tempo and time signature are also common. Vocalists adopt guttural vocal styles like growling and grunting and utilize bleak, often vulgar lyricism that delves into violence, anti-religiousness, politics, philosophy, science fiction, and death.

The earliest influences take roots in the blistering, raw sound and provocative style of the early 1980s Speed Metal pioneers, Venom. Thrash Metal groups such as Slayer and bands from the Belo Horizonte Brazilian thrash scene pushed the aggressiveness and speed while utilizing strained, unmelodic vocals and chromatic riffs.

The first death metal bands emerged in the United States in the mid-1980s, though the earliest acts retained thrash traces, with Possessed becoming an active member of the Bay Area thrash scene. In Europe, the UK Grindcore movement contributed to the sound of the first death metal groups, Carcass and Bolt Thrower.

Death, led by the guitarist Chuck Schuldiner, who would later be named "The Godfather of Death Metal," released a string of influential albums and was the impetus of the prominent Florida death metal scene, primarily based around the Tampa Bay area, additionally developed by Morbid Angel, Deicide, and Obituary.

In the early 1990s, death metal saw a rapid increase in popularity and spread to various countries, perhaps most notably and importantly Sweden and Finland.

666\.  
Technical Death Metal (aka Tech Death) is a sub-genre of Death Metal with particular focus on challenging, demanding songwriting and instrumental skill that began and developed in the early to mid 1990s with bands like Death, Atheist, Nocturnus and Pestilence.

Some of the distinct features of this genre include dynamic song structures, complex and atypical rhythmic structures, abundant use of diminished chords and arpeggios, frequent employment of odd time chord progressions and a lot of string skipping on the guitars. The music is normally extremely fast-paced and the representative bands remain firmly rooted in death metal due to their unbending devotion to rhythmic heaviness and conceptual darkness. However, when compared to death metal and its other sub-genres, aside from the features mentioned above, technical death metal bands usually give a different feeling to the music by frequently using more exotic scales. The bass lines are usually complex and the drums are extremely fast-paced with abundant use of blast-beats and other extreme drumming techniques.

Symbolic is a 1995 album that was released closer to the end of Death's activity. On RYM, it ranks \#2 for 1995, \#99 overall. Many consider it the penultimate Tech Death album, or Death Metal in general.  
[Symbolic](https://youtu.be/ZVtpax8gJGU)  
[Crystal Mountain](https://youtu.be/8F4tT_JNl40) \- just give this one a chance. crazy song, probably the first death metal song I listened to and enjoyed. Best part at 4:16.
