---
layout: post
title: "650:"
date: 2022-09-28
---

1980s: The Golden Age of Cantopop  
During the 1980s, Cantopop soared to great heights with artists, producers and record companies working in harmony. Cantopop stars such as Jacky Cheung (rec 637), Andy Lau, Anita Mui, Leslie Cheung, George Lam, Alan Tam, Sally Yeh, Priscilla Chan, Sandy Lam, and Danny Chan quickly became household names. The industry used Cantopop songs in TV dramas and movies, with some of the biggest soundtracks coming from films such as A Better Tomorrow. Sponsors and record companies became comfortable with the idea of lucrative contracts and million-dollar signings. There are also Japanese songs with Cantonese lyrics.

The most successful Chinese recording artist, "Queen of Mandarin songs" Teresa Teng (rec 636\) also crossed over to Cantopop. She achieved commercial success with her original Cantonese Hits under the Polygram Label in the early 1980s. Jenny Tseng was a notable addition from Macau.

Beyond and Tat Ming Pair had the greatest impact on the Hong Kong music scene.  
From Tat Ming Pair  
[Tat Ming Pair 達明一派 離 馬路天使 \[黑膠原音\]](https://youtu.be/qttPndrSxzw) (1987) this one's interesting. Very 80s.  
[Tat Ming Pair 達明一派 禁色 \[黑膠原音\]](https://youtu.be/lU2CCucBPCA) (1988) this one's nice

Cantopop gained large followings in Chinese communities worldwide, Hong Kong entrepreneurs' use of the then new Laserdisc technology prompted yet another explosion in the market.

The second wave of "band fever" also brought a group of new music lovers to the Hong Kong mainstream music world. Most of them were the just-grew-up generation, or the music lovers of western Avant-garde music, also the Euro-American Rock-band lovers. This contributed to a great change in the population and age distribution of the music listeners from the 70s. The second wave of "band fever" reached its climax in 1986–87. Cantopop gained large followings in Chinese communities worldwide, Hong Kong entrepreneurs' ingenious use of the then new Laserdisc technology prompted yet another explosion in the market.

In the 1980s arrived the second wave of "band fever" (the initial wave being 1960–70s), which was much influenced by global Beatlemania. Many new bands emerged at that time, such as Samuel Hui's Lotus. The bands that emerged in the first wave were just copying the western music style, mostly covering British and American rock songs, and preferred singing in English rather than Cantonese. The new "band fever" in the 80s did not show an obvious relationship with the global culture at the time being, but was much more related to the marketing strategy of the local record companies and mass media. Many independent bands and music groups were signed by big record companies, and this made a positive impact to the Hong Kong pop music world, as their works were highly original, with strong individuality, and they were all devoted to writing songs in local language, i.e. Cantonese. The subjects of their works were different from the mainstream, which was mostly love ballads. Politics and social life were popular subjects for the bands in their creation. Styles like Rock, Metal, Folk, Neo-Romantic and experimental styles like Cantorock were introduced.

1990s: Four Heavenly Kings era  
In the 1990s in Hong Kong, the "Four Heavenly Kings" \- Jacky Cheung, Andy Lau, Aaron Kwok and Leon Lai \- dominated music, and coverage in magazines, TV, advertisements and cinema.

The sovereignty handover created a culturally challenging atmosphere for the industry. Establishment of Basic Law and language ordinances made the adoption of Mandarin inevitable.

In 2019, Andy Lau spoke of his desire for a reunion of the Four Heavenly Kings in an interview with the press.

I already talked about this era in the Mandopop recs (rec 638), so I'll skip the additional details and song recs here.
