---
layout: post
title: "714:"
date: 2022-12-01
---

Alternative dance describes artists that, while rooted firmly in Alternative Rock and Indie Rock, heavily integrate aspects of Electronic music into their songs, such as synthesizers and rhythms taken from Electronic Dance Music.

Alternative dance developed in the early 1980s with New Order's mixing of Synthpop and Electro-Disco influence with a Post-Punk foundation. The band began to integrate Acid House into their music in the latter half of the decade, and their influence in the Manchester area gave rise to the Baggy scene in the late '80s.  
Alternative dance was also used to describe acts outside of Manchester in the late 1980s and early '90s.

Three tracks from New Order, across the 1980s. It's fun listening through each album and hearing how the genre develops.

From their 1983 album Power, Corruption & Lies  
[Age of Consent (2015 Remaster)](https://youtu.be/gG9fEaITgCk)  
This track gives a good feel for the Post-Punk foundation that makes up alternative dance, but has less of the synth stuff as Low-Life.

From their 1985 album Low-Life  
[Elegia (2015 Remaster)](https://youtu.be/omzJvwYO440)  
This is a stand-out track, and may not properly represent the rest of the album, which is generally more traditionally Synthpoppy or rocky. It's a great track, though which is why I'm reccing it.

From their 1989 album Technique  
[Vanishing Point (2015 Remaster)](https://youtu.be/aWuNzXttLVE)  
From later in the decade. You may be able to recognize the Acid House feel this one has.
