---
layout: post
title: "643:"
date: 2022-09-21
---

Freetekno is a form of Techno predominantly played at free parties in Europe since the early 90s. Tropes typical of freetekno include repetitive pounding kick drums and tempos above 170 BPM. It also tends to feature a heavy emphasis on rhythm rather than melody, and often contains various synthetic samples as well.

Spiral Tribe are considered leaders of the genre, along with other related artists on the Network 23 label.

Here's a 2001 album from French artist FKY belonging to the genre.  
[FKY \- Tranquiloutek (Full Album)](https://youtu.be/3g-D7MJW2rc)

A free party is a party "free" from the restrictions of the legal club scene, similar to the free festival movement. It typically involves a sound system playing electronic dance music from late at night until the time when the organisers decide to go home. A free party can be composed of just one system or of many and if the party becomes a festival, it becomes a teknival. This typically means that drugs are readily available. The word free in this context is used both to describe the entry fee and the lack of restrictions and law enforcement.

Motivations for organizers range from political protest to simply wanting to have fun. An example of free parties as political protest was their prominence during the M11 link road protest. At most parties no money is asked for entrance since the aim is not to make profit. However, at some (most often indoor) events it is requested at the door to make a donation to cover costs. Typically organisers make little profit or make a loss setting them up. The term free party is used more widely in Europe than in the US. In Canada and some parts of Europe they are also referred to as Freetekno parties. A free party might have once been described as a rave, and the origins of the two are similar. Since the birth of nightclubs in town centres in Europe the use of the word rave had largely fallen out of fashion, however in recent times it is increasingly being used again.

The term squat party defines the free parties with secret indoor locations. The address is obtained on the day of the event personally from organizers as the buildings are squatted. The parties often last over 24 hours.
