---
layout: post
title: "644:"
date: 2022-09-22
---

Hardtek is an upbeat style of Electronic Dance Music that rose to prominence in France in the early 2010s. Ancestrally rooted in Freetekno (from which it borrows the "hardtek" moniker), the genre utilizes uptempo (typically above 170 BPM) beats featuring deep kicks and off-beat saw bass synths, longwinded drop-centric structures, and a light, UK Hardcore-influenced atmosphere that often features samples of well-known songs and festival leads and drops influenced by genres such as Big Room House and Psytrance. While hardtek is generally known for its cleaner and more polished sound in comparison to other tek styles, the genre has significant crossover with Frenchcore and sometimes uses deep, distorted kick drums reminiscent of it.

Hardtek is partially known for its variety of substyles which fuse it with various genres such as Happy Hardcore (Mat Weasel Busters's "happytek" sound) and Dancehall (raggatek, e.g. Raggatek Power). While primarily rooted in France, the genre also enjoys a great deal of popularity in Japan, where the "pumpcore" substyle is one of the more prominent sounds of the modern J-core scene.

Here are some examples:

[Trigger](https://youtu.be/OfdlI3xxAZI) (2016) more frenchcore  
[Khalinkaa](https://youtu.be/HJWKqjCQOo8) (2017) more psytrance  
[Vandal \- Rolling Paper](https://youtu.be/TZl87rLHUm8) (2018) more ragga. Also, nice amen break inserts at 0:40, 1:01, etc.

The Japanese Hardtek scene leans more into happy hardcore styles (maybe try Hackatek \- Genocider G, Hayakore Tatsumi \- We without Wings). It's also pretty degenerate compared to the other styles, so I'm gonna avoid it on this rec. Look into it on your own if interested
