---
layout: post
title: "648:"
date: 2022-09-26
---

1960s: Cultural acceptance  
By the 1960s, Cantonese music in Hong Kong was still limited largely to traditional Cantonese opera and comic renditions of western music. Tang Kee-chan, Cheng Kuan-min, and Tam Ping-man were among the earliest artists to release Cantonese records. They were also all actors.

The generation at the time preferred British and American exports. Western culture was at the time equated with education and sophistication, and Elvis Presley, Johnny Mathis, and The Ladybirds were popular.

Conversely, those who did not prefer Cantonese music were not considered fashioned or educated. Cheng Kum-cheung and Chan Chung-chug were two popular Cantonese singers who specifically targeted the younger generation.

Here's a song from the 1966 movie Colorful Youth, starring Connie Chan Po Chu and Josephine Siao Fong Fong, also very popular cantonese singers from that time period.

As famous movie stars in the 60's, both born in 1947, they began to work together early at just 9 years old. Connie was trained to play male roles in Traditional Opera School during her childhood. She often played male roles paired with Josephine, and were an onscreen romantic couple in the martial arts movies they were in. From 1960 to 1967 they partnered together for nearly 60 movies.

Both singers are still alive today, age 75\.  
[Chan Po Chu and Siao Fong Fong  “Eternal Love” 陳寶珠蕭芳芳【七彩胡不歸】選段  \[with Homemade English lyrics\]](https://youtu.be/f1hGk3WJYRo)
