---
layout: post
title: "726:"
date: 2022-12-13
---

Third Wave Ska and Ska Punk

Third wave ska is a Ska revival genre that expanded on the 2 Tone period from Britain during the late 1970s. It developed during the mid-to-late 1980s, gained notable commercial success around the mid-1990s, and somewhat dissolved as a movement during the mid-2000s.

The development of third wave ska can be traced to the United States, where bands such as The Uptones, The Toasters, The Slackers, and The Scofflaws began playing their own form of 2 tone ska. While it didn't stray much from the stylistic changes found in the second wave, it did draw influence from the Mod Revival, took a heavier influence from Punk Rock, and some elements of Jazz.

During the time period in which third wave ska developed in North America, several other genres were burgeoning simultaneously, mainly within the Punk and Metal scenes. This lead to the eventual fusion of ska and punk rock, creating Ska Punk, especially by bands such as The Mighty Mighty Bosstones who propelled the genre's popularity to new heights in the 90s. Third wave and ska punk bands often shared an overlapping sound, and due to the growing popularity of the heavier sound, bands began to shed any non-punk influences, and third wave eventually became a less active scene.

A couple songs from Streetlight Manifesto's 2003 album Everything Goes Numb.  
[Everything Went Numb](https://youtu.be/7ahxoOgz-nw)  
[A Moment of Silence](https://youtu.be/U5_tbnaoGiE)
