---
layout: post
title: "706:"
date: 2022-11-23
---

Exotica emerged in the early 1950s as the United States developed a fascination with Polynesia and the South Pacific, incorporating traditional and rhythms from these cultures into a Western Pop context. This was leading up to Hawaii becoming the 50th US state. Musical innovators such as Martin Denny, Arthur Lyman, and Les Baxter combined western recording styles, including the new stereo technology, with traditional instruments and rhythms from the tropics to popularize a sound that was marketed as exotic to Western audiences. The genre takes its name from the Martin Denny album Exotica.  

The music that was considered exotic was not limited to one region and did not generally feature the traditional sounds of that region, but rather music that might have tourist appeal. Latin American artists such as the Mexican band leader Esquivel (see next rec) and the Peruvian singer Yma Sumac became popular as part of the same trend.

Exotica, along with most forms of Easy Listening fell out of favor from the mid 1960s through the 1980s, but gained a new following and new appreciation as the music re-appeared on various artists CD series in the 1990s

From Peruvian soprano Yma Sumac's 1950 album Voice of the Xtabay  
[Ataypura\!](https://youtu.be/VTb8gho_Qg4)  
La Xtabay is a Yucatec Maya folklore about a demonic femme fatale who preys upon men in the Yucatán Peninsula. She is said to dwell in the forest to lure men to their deaths with her incomparable beauty.

From Martin Denny's 1959 album Quiet Village  
[Martinique](https://youtu.be/HAdsiDNjDWQ)
