---
layout: post
title: "680:"
date: 2022-10-28
---

"Águas da Amazônia, Sete ou oito peças para um balé" (Portuguese for '"Waters of the Amazon, seven or eight pieces for a ballet"') is a 1993–99 musical composition by the American contemporary classical composer Philip Glass. Its first recording was performed by the Brazilian instrumental group Uakti.

Originally composed as a dance score for a ballet company of Belo Horizonte (Grupo Corpo), following the introduction between Uakti and Philip Glass by Paul Simon, it draws inspiration from the Amazon waters with tones of classical, new age and jazz music. The track listing dedicates each song to one of the rivers.

Glass composed the music which the group performed under the artistic direction of, and with arrangements by, Marco Antônio Guimarães. It's obvious by hearing the instruments the amazonian influence. This was the first time that Glass's music was arranged by another composer. Paulo Sérgio dos Santos and Décio de Souza Ramos Filho played the percussion instruments and Artur Andrés Ribeiro the woodwinds. Regina Stela Amaral and Michael Riesman complemented Uakti's performance of the work at the keyboard.

Glass described the result as "a true melding of my music with their sensibilities." Which is a perfectly accurate description. You can compare this music to his work I recced on 530 and 533 to hear the comparisons, it's that repetitive, minimalist structure that ties his style together.

[Glass: Aguas da Amazonia \- Japurá River](https://youtu.be/N0b5-D2YliQ) (this is the most popular track off the album)  
[Glass: Aguas da Amazonia \- Amazon River](https://youtu.be/gnKkxzd5aYs) (my favorite)

I just recommend putting that second track, even in the background, giving yourself some time to settle into it. It's a really interesting atmosphere that comes about with some vivid imagery.
