---
layout: post
title: "711:"
date: 2022-11-28
---

Jangle pop is a style of Rock music characterized by its blend of chiming, "jangly" guitar sounds with Pop-oriented melodies. With its roots in the Post-Punk explosion of the late 1970s and early 1980s, the style of jangle pop was greatly shaped by Folk Rock artists like The Byrds, as well as Power Pop groups such as Big Star.

The genre's distinct sound is typically achieved through the use of trebly (usually twelve-string) electric guitars played in a chordal, arpeggiated picking style. These tones are often combined with grittier production values, rawer musical approaches, and more cryptic lyricism compared to other Rock sub-genres. Jangle pop found its greatest critical and mainstream popularity in the mid 1980s, with bands such as R.E.M., The Smiths and Felt.

The Californian Paisley Underground scene is considered a derivation of this style that incorporates Psychedelic Rock influences.

Two tracks from The Smiths' 1986 Jangle Pop album The Queen Is Dead, which is rated \#1 for 1986, \#35 overall on RYM.  
[There Is a Light That Never Goes Out (2011 Remaster)](https://youtu.be/3r-qDvD3F3c)  
[Bigmouth Strikes Again (2011 Remaster)](https://youtu.be/RvvbCoE4g2E)

One of the Smiths' less popular albums, another Post-Punk Jangle Pop one, is Hatful of Hollow from 1984\.

This album is the highest rated for 1984 on RYM, ranked \#2 for the year after Metallica's Ride the Lightning, \#114 overall.  
[How Soon Is Now? (2011 Remaster)](https://youtu.be/OztC_7nkAd8)  
[The Smiths \- Heaven Knows I'm Miserable Now](https://youtu.be/PQyqrlFOe5s)
