---
layout: post
title: "689:"
date: 2022-11-06
---

Soukous is a popular style of guitar-led Congolese dance music blending rhythms from Cuban Music with the traditional music of the Congo area. The style is typically defined by bright, intricate guitar lines and improvisations, often played high on the fretboard. Various ensemble sizes may be used, with upwards of three guitars sometimes employed simultaneously. Prominent horn and vocal arrangements are occasionally incorporated as well. Lyrics are often sung across ethnic boundaries, making them accessible to both French and Lingala-speaking listeners.

Originally emerging from Congolese Rumba, the name soukous (originating from the French word secouer, meaning "to shake") was introduced in the late 1960s as some Congolese artists began emphasizing faster dance tempos and virtuosic guitar improvisation. A second wave in the 1970s, led by Franco & OK Jazz and Zaiko Langa Langa, saw the genre downplay the horn section and become popular across Africa. In the 1980s, it began to incorporate elements from other African and European styles, including synthesizers and modern production approaches, with Paris becoming a European center of soukous.

Soukous remains one of the best-known styles of Central African Music and African popular music in general, with artists such as Soukous Stars, Kanda Bongo Man and Loketo winning early favor among European audiences.

Zoundegnon Bernard 'Papillon' guitariste principal is a 1977 album from T.P. Orchestre Poly-Rythmo de Cotonou \- Bénin. It's a beloved album of the 	   
Soukous, Fon Music, and Highlife genres.

30-minute-ish album consisting of these two tracks:  
[Benin:   Zoundegnon Bernard (T.P Orchestre Poly Rythmo de Cotonou)    Cherie Coco](https://youtu.be/odQ8vrjDAzw)  
[T. P. Orchestre Poly-Rythmo De Cotonou Benin \- Mille Fois Merci](https://youtu.be/pQ_yCsyFN_E)
