---
layout: post
title: "713:"
date: 2022-11-30
---

Baggy is a genre associated with the Madchester scene of Manchester, England that hit its peak in popularity during the late 1980s and early 1990s. The genre is named as such due to the fashion of this scene, which heavily featured baggy jeans and brightly coloured tops in a throwback to the 1960s.

This style is known for incorporating elements such as Funk, Neo-Psychedelia, Indie Pop, Acid House and Jangle Pop, among others, to the Alternative Dance sound pioneered by the Mancunian band New Order. A prime characteristic of baggy is melodic and hypnotic instrumentation, Jangle Pop and Funk influenced riffs, as well as the spacious production style trademark of Factory Records' Martin Hannett.

The Haçienda nightclub, co-founded by New Order and Tony Wilson, became an important hub for the development and rise to prominence of Madchester bands that played in the baggy style such as The Stone Roses, Happy Mondays, Inspiral Carpets and The Charlatans. Rave culture and the influence of drugs, especially MDMA, have become associated with this scene. Many of the genre's most popular singles were remixed by DJs into house mixes, which were popularized at clubs around the world.

Despite being a product of the Madchester scene, with the style of the music itself often being referred to as "Madchester", baggy also included bands that weren't part of the Manchester music scene, such as The Soup Dragons, EMF and early Blur.

While baggy would eventually suffer a decline of commercial success and critical acclaim, the style and its popularity played an important role as a precursor for the rise of the mid-1990s Britpop genre.

The Stone Roses' self-titled 1989 is good and important enough to warrant it's own rec.

Here's the first track. The rest of the album may be worth a listen if you like it.

[I Wanna Be Adored (Remastered)](https://youtu.be/aa10yl8mirk?list=PLHTo__bpnlYU_6XITu0BAsIG5cP8ZYFd5)

Fans of British Pop and Alt Rock often deem this one of the greatest albums of all time. The top representative of the Madchester scene.

Not every track is for me, but there are some bangers for sure.
