---
layout: post
title: "664:"
date: 2022-10-12
---

Conducted improvisation

A form of collective improvisation directed by a conductor. One of the most influential methods of performing conducted improvisation is conduction (not to be confused with "conducting"), an idea introduced by Avant-Garde Jazz composer and conductor Lawrence Butch Morris. In conduction, the conductor uses cues to alter various aspects of a performance, such as harmony, rhythm, melody, phrasing etc. Signs, gestures and their meaning are chosen before each performance, but the musicians retain some degree of freedom in interpreting them. Other artists created their own methods of performing conducted improvisation. For example Walter Thompson's soundpainting (the universal multidisciplinary live composing sign language), whereas methods such as John Zorn's game pieces employ hand gestures, flash cards and a complex set of rules inspired by war games.

Conducted improvisation is closely related to Free Improvisation and Free Jazz in its open, improvised and unconventional style, but it differs from them in the degree of direction involved. It is also closely related to Indeterminacy in the sense that the composer is does not have complete control over the music; the ensemble does. Conducted improvisation can be played with any type of ensemble. Morris performed with both jazz and classical musicians, as well as with Traditional Folk Music and Experimental artists. As a result, conducted improvisation doesn't have a typical style, nor is it necessarily non-idiomatic.

Every performance is different. Here's Tyshawn Sorey and his group's conduction performance of "Pillars," released 2018\.  
[Tyshawn Sorey \- Full Performance, Conduction at Banff Centre](https://youtu.be/dv6tWCLh8cQ)  
It's atonal and dissonant. Interesting to hear how the sound develops over time. Wish I had a list of what his gestures actually mean.
