---
layout: post
title: "607:"
date: 2022-08-16
---

I've done roughly 8 Trip-Hop and 13 Downtempo recs so far, but never described either genre.

Downtempo (or Downtempo Electronica) is a broad category of Electronic music featuring mellow, slow-paced beats and an Ambient-leaning atmosphere. With its laid-back tempos, it emphasizes groove, layered texture, and mood. Productions may blend elements of Hip Hop, Dub, Deep House, Breakbeat, and other styles. The sensibility developed within late 1980s movements such as Bristol's proto-Trip Hop scene and the Ibiza club scene, offering an alternative to the upbeat dance music of the time. It saw popularity during the 1990s as a form of chillout music. Downtempo would influence subsequent genres like Psybient, Chillwave, and Lo-Fi Hip Hop.

Trip-hop is a style of Downtempo that emerged from the Bristol underground in the early 1990s. Although it shares the constant, repetitive beats of downtempo, trip-hop is texturally a little busier, featuring Hip Hop-influenced beats that evoke a surreal, trippy, dreamy, sometimes dark atmosphere, as well as both live and electronic instrumentation. Other common features include offbeat turntable scratches, vocal melodies, and usually a mellow tempo in 4/4. Although some (particularly earlier) trip-hop is instrumental or features rapped vocals, the genre often employs light, sometimes ethereal female vocals influenced by Contemporary R\&B and Soul, with lyrical themes being abstract and metaphorical.  
[Portishead \- Sour Times](https://youtu.be/un8EW82GwKc)  
[Roads](https://youtu.be/7nxWP9BhI7w)  
[Glory Box](https://youtu.be/c417rIku6Iw)

Dummy is a 1994 album by Portishead, falling into the genre of Trip Hop (thus also Downtempo), Dark Jazz, and Acid Jazz.

Mysterious and nocturnal. Very atmospheric. Evocative of cold, dark urban environments; bleak and also beautiful. Beth Gibbons's voice, despondent and worn-down, matches the instruments perfectly.
