---
layout: post
title: "601:"
date: 2022-08-10
---

The next few recs will be on some subgenres of Black Metal. First, about the genre:

Black metal is a style of extreme Metal typified by tremolo-picked riffs, distorted, trebly electric guitars, shrieked vocals, and double-kick drumming and blast beats that also frequently feature raw, underproduced sound. Conventional song structures are often replaced with extensive passages. Black metal's origins trace back to the 1980s Speed Metal's blistering sound, adopting unpolished production, anti-Christian and Satanic lyricism, and provocative imagery and stage names. Their sophomore record, Black Metal, is considered to have coined the genre's name.

First-wave black metal emerged from a wide range of early extreme metal sounds and didn't always resemble the sound typically associated with modern black metal. The most significant influences came from Thrash Metal scenes. First-wave's popularity faded by the end of the 1980s due to thrash metal's primetime and Death Metal's popularity.

With the 1990s came second-wave black metal, spearheaded by the Norwegian Scene, creating a more repetitive, tremolo riff-focused style with blast beats and double-kick drumming. These artists also experimented with song structures. Many scenes and bands started sprouting in different countries around the world.

By the late 1990s, some projects strayed away from the unpolished, under-produced, repetitious sound, implementing technically demanding structures and modernized production. This development was built upon in the 2000s by intensifying the technicality and adding dense and dissonant avant-garde Classical Music inspired sound masses.

Throughout the 2000s and 2010s, artists experimented with fusing other genres. The themes tackled by songwriters also changed to include nature, folklore, mythologies, paganism, depression, anxiety, and philosophy. Some genres, even those outside of metal, took in black metal influence to create "blackened" styles, such as Blackened Crust and Black Ambient.

Depressive Black Metal (aka DSBM \- Depressive Suicidal Black Metal) is characterized by lethargic atmospheres; usually repetitive song structures and slow-mid tempos; high-pitched wailing and gruff vocals; and usage of non-distorted instruments like keyboards and acoustic guitars. The subject matter concerns pessimistic topics, including suicide, nihilism, misanthropy, hatred, melancholy, and self-mutilation.

Il était une forêt... is a 2007 album from Quebec ensemble Gris. It belongs to the genre of Depressive Black Metal.  
[Gris \- Il Était Une Forêt... (Full Album)](https://youtu.be/WS0l0o45IUw)
