---
layout: post
title: "668:"
date: 2022-10-16
---

Slam Death Metal is a subgenre of Brutal Death Metal that focuses on slow or midtempo (as well as breakdown-style) sections built on chromatic, palm-muted riffs \- so called "slams". Compared to brutal death metal's basic songwriting aesthetics, blast beats and guitar solos are less important, though blast beat/tremolo riff sections are frequently applied. The visual aesthetics are quite similar, though slam death metal usually takes the macabre and violent look of brutal death metal to its extreme.

The genre has its origin in the 1990s New York death metal scene (which in turn brought in influences from the sound, attitude and aesthetic of New York Hardcore), where bands such as Suffocation pioneered the use of slam riffs. Devourment and Internal Bleeding are often considered the first true slam bands, as they popularized many of the genre's songwriting conventions and visual aesthetics. Other notable "slam" bands include Cephalotripsy and Short Bus Pile Up. The vocals normally consist of extremely low-pitched, unintelligible death grunts, frequently featuring Hip Hop-inspired vocal rhythms. Hip hop elements often appear in the drumbeats as well.

The genre is sometimes compared to or confused with Nu Metal due to the use of chugging atonal riffs and rap/hip hop influences, and Deathcore due to the guttural vocals, focus on breakdowns and general "tough guy" aesthetic.

Vengeance for Nothing, a 2012 album by Japanese band Blunt Force Trauma  
[Blunt Force Trauma (JPN) \- Vengeance for Nothing (Full Album 2012\)](https://youtu.be/Bb3lq7l4N8g)

Scaphism 4​-​Way Split, a 2017 album by 4 bands: Delusional Parasitosis / Ecchymosis / Dissevered / Bleeding  
[Scaphism 4​-​Way Split \[ FULL SPLIT \]](https://youtu.be/ETa9btok5MU) (really nasty. like actually disgusting to listen to)
