---
layout: post
title: "633:"
date: 2022-09-11
---

Beginning of recording industry in China, 1920s: Birth of Shidaiqu in Shanghai

The Chinese-language music industry began with the arrival of gramophone. The earliest gramophone recording in China was made in Shanghai in 1903 by Fred Gaisberg, sent by the U.S. Victor Talking Machine Company to record local music in Asia. Recordings were then manufactured outside China and re-imported by the Moutrie (Moudeli) Foreign Firm, which dominated the market before the 1910s, up until the Pathé Records took over the leading role. Pathé was founded in 1908 by a Frenchman named Labansat. The company established a recording studio, and the first record-pressing plant in the Shanghai French Concession in 1914\. Pathé became the principal record company for the industry. It originally recorded mainly Peking opera, but later expanded to Mandarin popular music.

Although most people in Shanghai then spoke Shanghainese, the recordings of the pop music from Shanghai from the 1920s onwards were done in Standard Mandarin (based on the Beijing dialect). Mandarin was considered the language of the modern, educated class in China, with movements to popularize the use of Mandarin as a national language. Those involved in this movement included songwriters such as Li Jinhui working in Shanghai. Li Jinhui is often dubbed as the "Father of Chinese popular music". He created a new musical form, shidaiqu, and was a major force in introducing Jazz to China.

Li Jinhui's music was later criticized as "Yellow Music" (more on that two recs from now) supposedly corrupting public morals through its sexual associations. He was disgraced following the Chinese Revolution and killed during the Cultural Revolution in the late 60s. However, his music would strongly influence the later cantopop and mandopop movements in Hong Kong and Taiwan. Here's a song composed by Jinhui.  
[毛毛雨 \- 黎明暉(1927)](https://youtu.be/KbqMvGkK5IU)  
The singer here is his daughter Li Minghui.

Li Jinhui led an extremely interesting life. Born into a scholarly family in Xiangtan, Hunan, Jinhui was the second oldest of the renowned eight Li brothers. His older brother Li Jinxi was a prominent linguist who taught Mao Zedong, and his youngest brother Chin Yang Lee (Li Jinyang) later became a bestselling author in the US.

Early in his career, after a brief stint in Beijing working as the new National Assembly's secretary from 1911 to 1914, Li returned to his native Hunan to direct other student choirs. He wrote several satirical political songs for a Changsha newspaper, but one such song so angered a local warlord that Li received a beating for it.

Li Jinhui was married to Xu Lai, a Chinese film actress, socialite, and World War II secret agent (after the sudden death of their daughter Xiaofeng in 1935, and their subsequent divorce). Known as the "Standard Beauty", she was active in the film industry for only three years, and quit acting after the suicide of the great star Ruan Lingyu in 1935\.

He had at least 2 other daughters, Li Ming Hui and Li Lili (adopted) who died in 2003 and 2005\. I'm not sure about Li Ming Hui, but Li Lili was 90 when she passed.

As a victim of political persecution, in 1967 Li Jinhui was hounded to his death at age 75\.
