---
layout: post
title: "663:"
date: 2022-10-11
---

Modern Creative is a style of Experimental and improvisational music that grew from and is closely related to Free Jazz and Free Improvisation, as well as certain Modern Classical styles such as Indeterminacy. Where free jazz structures its improvisations with elements derived from the Jazz idiom and free improvisation tends to abandon structure entirely, Modern Creative music creates novel communication techniques, scoring methods, or any other type of concept to generate structure. Its sound can be highly varied, but, overall, the music commonly features a mix of jazz instrumentation (saxophones, piano, drum kit) and western classical instrumentation (bowed string instruments, low brass), arranged in configurations uncommon to both jazz and Western classical idioms. The genre's combination of Western classical and jazz idioms founded in improvisation can be likened to an experimental cousin of Third Stream, and often includes similar techniques to those that Lawrence Butch Morris created for Conducted Improvisation, as the two genres evolved side by side.

It was first Braxton who dubbed the new style of music they'd developed "creative music," as he disagreed with the public calling him a jazz musician. This new style was neither modern classical nor Avant-Garde Jazz but included some compositional and technical elements of both, as well as the constant presence of free improvisation. Modern Creative music does away with the primary inspiration for the free jazz of the 60s, that being Bebop. Braxton's music drew inspiration from the indeterminacy of John Cage and employed what he called "language music," specific concepts that tethered the improvisation to a certain sound to have a more identifiable structure.

Anthony Braxton's "Willisau (Quartet)" from 1991\.  
[Anthony Braxton – Willisau (Quartet) 1991](https://youtu.be/ZCPMoGCsOyk)
