---
layout: post
title: "686:"
date: 2022-11-03
---

Third, Akan

The music of the Akan people of Ghana and Ivory Coast is based on some of the oldest musical traditions of West Africa. It includes many traditional and neo-traditional styles which are especially prominent in central Ghana, where it overshadows other important genres such as Ewe Music, Ga music and Dagomba Music.

Traditional Akan music is sung in the Akan languages, either Twi or Fanti. There are two types of traditional ensembles: those which play ritual music, and hence are part of a certain institution, and those which play recreational music without any affiliation. Regardless of the ensemble, the instrumentation is mainly composed of idiophones and membranophones. The main types of Akan drums are the from, the eguankoba and the atumpan. Polyrhythmic structures and call and response are also inherent to Akan traditional music.

During the late 19th century and early 20th century, the British population introduced popular styles such as European brass band marches, American vaudeville and ballroom dance music, which were then Africanised by the indigenous Akan population giving rise to neo-traditional Akan variants such as konkoma marching music, which recreates Western brass bands with rural instrumentation and traditional singing. Urban Ghanaians who could afford brass instruments made adaha music.

The Fanti (or Fante) are one of the main subgroups of Akan people. Fanti osibisaaba music is a neo-traditional genre that combines Akan percussion with guitars and accordions brought by sailors. Originating in the coastal regions of the Ghana, osibisaaba also reached rural Ghana, where the seprewa (an Akan harp-lute) was adopted as the lead instrument. This lead to the formation of Palm Wine Music, which in turn became the roots of Highlife.

Other important subgroups of Akan people are the Baule (or Baoule) and the Ashanti (or Asante). The latter is the biggest and best characterized group; the vast majority of studies on Akan traditional music are specifically focused on Ashanti practices. Compilations of different Akan musical styles include Rhythms of Life, Songs of Wisdom: Akan Music From Ghana, Music of the Ashanti of Ghana and Musical Atlas: Ivory Coast \- Baulé Vocal Music.

As you can tell, it's a somewhat overwhelmingly diverse genre. Too much to talk about on a single rec. Here's a track from 1996's Rhythms of Life, Songs of Wisdom: Akan Music from Ghana:  
[Osode](https://youtu.be/LwzrHqSseLw)

From 1986's Antoinette Konan's self-titled album, which also combines the sounds of pop soul and disco:  
[Antoinette Konan — Abidjan Adja](https://youtu.be/2EVeFdxXtlw)

From 2021, also borrowing from Afro-Funk:  
[Alostmen feat. Wanlov The Kubolor \- Kologo](https://youtu.be/fVUvxNu0EQI)

Side note, here's an track from a 1981 album featuring all three genres. Traditional Women's Music from Ghana: Ewe, Fanti, Ashanti, and Dagomba:  
[Ashanti](https://youtu.be/tygQBmQzxUY)

Note that Asante (Ashanti) speak the Twi language    , and Twi and Fanti are the Akan languages.

Great compilation album. Consistently good recording quality, too.
