---
layout: post
title: "647:"
date: 2022-09-25
---

1920s to 1950s: Shanghai origins  
Western-influenced music first came to China in the 1920s, specifically through Shanghai. Artists like Zhou Xuan (周璇) acted in films and recorded popular songs.

Zhou was possibly the first Chinese pop star. I mentioned her on rec 634 as well. She was the best known of China's Seven Great Singing Stars, nicknamed the "Golden Voice", or "Golden Throat" according to my mom. She also had a concurrent movie career until 1954\. She lived from 1920 to September 22 1957\.

She didn't sing in Cantonese, but is still a very important figure for HK-pop. If her Mandarin singing sounds like she has a slight accent, it's because \- like almost all recordings from past eras \- people from that long ago sound like they speak in a dialect to our modern ears. Consider the way actors spoke in western movies from the same time period compared to now.

Zhou was born Su Pu, but was separated from her natural parents at a young age and raised by adoptive parents. She spent her entire life searching for her biological parents but her parentage was never established until after her death. According to later family research, a relative who was an opium addict took her at the age of 3 to another city and sold her to a family named Wang, who named her Wang Xiaohong. She was later adopted by a family named Zhou, changing her name to Zhou Xiaohong. At the age of 13, she took Zhou Xuan as her stage name, 'Xuan' meaning beautiful jade in Chinese.

From the 1937 film Street Angel, Song of the Four Seasons:  
[Zhou Xuan 周璇 sings "Song of the Four Seasons" 四季歌 \- "Street Angels" 馬路天使 (1937)](https://youtu.be/fWgLRudwreU)  
She was 17 when this was made.

In 1949 when the People's Republic of China was established by the Chinese Communist Party, one of the first actions taken by the government was to denounce pop music (specifically Western pop). Beginning in the 1950s, massive waves of immigrants fled Shanghai to destinations like North Point in Hong Kong. As a result, many first-generation Cantopop artists and composers hail from Shanghai.
