---
layout: post
title: "634:"
date: 2022-09-12
---

1930s–1940s: The Seven Great Singing Stars era

In 1931, the first sound film was made in China in a cooperation between the Mingxing Film Company and Pathé. The film industry engaged singers for acting and soundtrack roles, and Li Jinhui's Bright Moonlight Song and Dance Troup became the first modern musical division to be integrated into the Chinese film industry. Amongst the best-known of the singer-actresses to emerge in the 1930s were Zhou Xuan, Gong Qiuxia, and Bai Hong. A close relationship between the recording and film industries continued for many decades. Later, Yao Lee, Bai Guang, Li Xianglan, Wu Yingyin also became popular, and collectively these seven stars became known as the "Seven Great Singing Stars" of the period. In 1940 Yao Lee recorded "Rose, Rose, I Love You" which later became the first Chinese pop song to be covered by Western singers and become a hit.

[Yao Lee \- Rose, rose, I love you \-1940 (姚莉-玫瑰玫瑰我愛你)](https://youtu.be/_-vv-tgoab0)

The "Seven Great Singing Stars" in the Republic of China period secured the place of the shidaiqu genre in East Asian society. Zhou Xuan is generally considered the most notable Chinese pop star of the era for her highly successful singing and film career. This generation saw the rise in popularity of female singers from mere "song girls" to "stars", and for the next few decades, female singers would dominate the Mandarin popular music industry.

In the late 1930s to early 1940s, Pathé Records held about 90% market share of the Mandarin pop songs.

The era was a tumultuous period, with the occupation of Shanghai by the Japanese armies of the Second Sino-Japanese War from 1937-1945, followed by continuation of the civil war between the Nationalists and Communists. In response to the turmoil, productions began to shift to Hong Kong, and after the Communist takeover in 1949, many stars moved to Hong Kong which then replaced Shanghai as the center of the entertainment industry in the 1950s.
