---
layout: post
title: "739:"
date: 2022-12-26
---

Ambient dub is an Electronic fusion of Ambient and Dub reggae, featuring the atmosphere of the former and the Jamaican-style basslines, percussion, and psychedelic production techniques of the latter.

The name of the genre was coined by Beyond with a series of compilation albums of the same name, starting with Ambient Dub Volume One: The Big Chill in 1992\. Many of the prominent artists within the genre also perform or mix in elements of Dub Techno or Ambient Techno, which has led to confusion over ambient dub's actual sound. While the lines are blurred between these three electronic genres, ambient dub can genuinely be discerned by its denser atmospheres, a heavier use of reverb and/or delay, and an emphasis on bass akin to traditional dub.

Since I've covered genres with similar sounds to more 'traditional' Ambient Dub in the past, I'll instead use this rec for a more unique ambient dub project:

From Muslimgauze's 1998 Tribal Ambient/Ambient Dub/Arabic Music album Mullah Said:  
[Muslimgauze \- Mullah said](https://youtu.be/utA7Z6q_dqY)  
Muslimgauze was the main musical project of Bryn Jones, a British ethnic electronica and experimental musician who was influenced by conflicts and history in the Muslim world, often with an emphasis on the Israeli–Palestinian conflict.

There's a lot of creativity in Dub and Dub-derived genres. Luxury Problems by Andy Stott, Liumin by Deepchord Presents Echospace, and The Orb's Adventures Beyond the Ultraworld by Orb are all worth a listen for those interested in other dub electronica.

We're almost done with this whole line of reggae-related genres. Just 5 more to go.
