---
layout: post
title: "637:"
date: 2022-09-15
---

1990s  
A number of singers originally from mainland China such as Faye Wong and Na Ying began to record in Hong Kong and Taiwan. Faye Wong, referred to in the media as the Diva of Asia, first recorded in Cantonese in Hong Kong, and later recorded in Mandarin. Though, Wong is also known to be a "diva with few words" in public, and has gained a reputation for her "cool" personality. In 2000, she was recognised by Guinness World Records as the Best Selling Canto-Pop Female. She became the first Chinese singer to perform in Budokan, Japan.

My mom is the same age as Faye Wong, but she listens to more Teresa Teng. Me also for that second part.

[Faye Wong: Red Bean](https://youtu.be/BfapPzxsfcM)

During this period, many Cantopop singers from Hong Kong such as the "Four Heavenly Kings" \- Aaron Kwok, Leon Lai, Andy Lau and Jacky Cheung \- also began to dominate Mandopop. One of the best-selling Mandarin albums was the 1993 album The Goodbye Kiss by Jacky Cheung which sold over 1 million in Taiwan and 4 million in total Asia-wide.

[張學友 \- 吻別 / Kiss Goodbye (by Jacky Cheung)](https://youtu.be/4gjOeEvhJUc)

Nonetheless, Taiwan has its own popular singers such as Stella Chang, Sky Wu, Wakin Chau (formerly Emil Chau) and Jeff Chang. Independent labels such as Rock Records began to establish themselves in this period as some of the most influential labels. Towards the end of the 90s, other singers such as Leehom Wang and David Tao became popular, and some also began to perform in the R\&B and/or hip-hop genres.

In the period from the mid-1990s to early 2000s, Shanghai and Beijing became centers of the music industry in mainland China, with Shanghai focusing on music record publishing and distribution, while Beijing focused on music recording.
