---
layout: post
title: "704:"
date: 2022-11-21
---

Here's an interesting genre.

Library Music, AKA: Production Music, Music Library, Production Music Library, Source Music, Mood Music, Stock Music, Cue Music, or Background Music

Library music is the term for musical compositions that can be licensed to consumers for use in audio, video or audiovisual formats. The term gets its name from the owners of stock and production music, known as music libraries. The primary difference between library music and more traditionally-copyrighted music is that library music is usually made on a work for hire basis. This means that the music library that owns the music is able to license it for use without the consent or approval of the composer. Stock music does not refer to any specific genre of musical composition.

While technically a genre, library music compositions share similarities in a different way from most genres. It's a neat rabbithole with too much to talk about in one rec. [Production music \- Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Production_music#As_popular_music)

In the 1980s, there were hundreds of library companies producing music with old records becoming redundant, especially with the advent of CDs. By the mid-1990s, these companies, many located in Soho, London, were dumping their old and obsolete vinyl records on local record and charity shops. Many record collectors became interested in the genre, and it gained a cult following.

In the 2000s, library music also began to interest crate-digging hip hop producers. Some were interested, in part, because of the sample-clearance issues faced with commercial music releases while others, such as Madlib, have used it for its unique musical quality. Library music has been sampled by artists including the Avalanches, Jay-Z, Beyoncé, A$AP Rocky, Flying Lotus, RZA, Dr. Dre, and Ghostface Killah.

The 1974 Jay Richford & Gary Stevan album Feelings is often described as the best Library Music album.I dunno if it's all that, but it's pretty good.  
[Jay Richford & Gary Stevan / Feelings / 1975 / Full Album](https://youtu.be/1jHZcvtfZRM)

A couple other tracks I like:

From Piero Umiliani's 1973 album To-day's Sound,  
[Open Space](https://youtu.be/bilHRvO20o0)  
This track was used in the 1973 giallo film Baba Yaga

From Maria Teresa Luciani's 1972 album Nuovaserie n° 1 \- Suoni di una città,  
[youtu.be/aNQQGcn3kzo](https://youtu.be/aNQQGcn3kzo) (taken down)  
This one belongs to the genre of musique concrète (rec 384), which involves the manipulation of recorded environmental sounds, mostly field recordings, natural sounds, and real-world noises.

Coincidentally, Dominique Guiot ‎– L'Univers De La Mer (1978) is another Library Music album I recced back on rec 75, though I wasn't aware of the classification at the time.

I've mentioned it a few times before, and it's pretty self explanatory, but it seems I've never outright defined Easy Listening as a genre.

Easy Listening is a form of often instrumental, lush pop music played by orchestras and big bands for light entertainment. It peaked in the late 1950s and in the 1960s. The repertory often includes Pop, Standards, Jazz, Classical Music or Folk themes being played in light instrumental versions. City Pop and Bossa Nova are a couple genres I've talked about with a lot of Easy Listening overlap.

The next 3 recs will be on some other common easy listening styles.
