---
layout: post
title: "622:"
date: 2022-08-31
---

Anti-World is a 2016 Experimental Hip Hop, Trap, and Trap Metal album by US Rapper Syringe (aka Sybyr), with some influence from Cloud Rap, Industrial Hip Hop, and Emo Rap.

Trap originated in Atlanta in the early 2000s; features a distinctive fast hi-hat sound and heavy bass at moderate tempos.

Trap metal is a subgenre of Trap pioneered in the mid 2010s by rappers such as Bones, Sybyr and XXXTENTACION. The genre's typical sound features a distinct style of trap beats that utilize loud, distorted 808s and basslines, generally raw and minimal mixing, and aggressive vocals that are usually yelled or screamed. Lyrics often venture into violent, dark or even occultist topics, though not all of the genre is lyrically distinct. It's not uncommon for producers to sample (or occasionally, play) Metal inspired guitar loops in their beats, although it is not a necessary component of the genre. Trap metal reached mainstream prominence in early 2017 with the success of the single "Look at Me\!" and has since become a popular form of trap music.

There are a few things about the album that really do it for me; innovative mixing of ethereal-sounding instrumentals with aggressive and percussive vocals, clever and unique language, and the self-hatred and angst you usually get with trap metal done really well and gutturally.

[Pissin Off (feat. Shy)](https://youtu.be/Pc7RFnBYKR0)  
[I Like Being](https://youtu.be/_ms7zWHx7fw)  
[Piss On The Kitchen Floor (feat. Evil Nigga)](https://youtu.be/q84iebqfRC4)

The next 3 recs are gonna be on some of the top East-Coast Hip Hop albums from this year.
