---
layout: post
title: "678:"
date: 2022-10-26
---

1980s: Lifting of martial law

By the early 1980s, Hokkien pop remained popular only among the older generations and working class; Mandopop had benefited from government promotion of Standard Chinese in gaining appeal with the younger generation. After the lifting of martial law in 1987, local Taiwanese culture was allowed to flourish, and major changes came to the content and social status of Tai-pop songs.

In the Mandopop-dominated market of 1989, Blacklist Studio released the first native Taiwanese album, "Song of Madness" by 黑名單工作室 \[Hei Mingdan Gongzuoshi\].  
[黑名單工作室 《抓狂歌》專輯](https://youtu.be/SX-FQuGvbhU)  
The release of this album changed Taiwan's alternative culture forever. It ranges from new wave to Taiwanese folk, to rap, to atmospheric pop with each song sounding unique. Really fun album that reflects a want for originality and freedom of expression.

One famous male singer from the 1980s is Chris Hung, famous for One Little Umbrella (一支小雨傘);  
[Hokkian Song \- 一支小雨傘 Cit Ke Sio Ho Sua](https://youtu.be/Oo6N3Fj8v8s) (1982)

Jody Chiang (cover on 676\) is Taiwan's most famous singer and is often referred to as the Queen of Taiwanese pop music. She has many albums and compilations that date from the 1980s to the present. She is sometimes referred to as the Taiwanese equivalent of Teresa Teng. Teresa Teng, although of mainland Chinese heritage, is also known to have songs in Taiwanese. Unfortunately, these songs have not made it to CDs like her Japanese, Mandarin, and Cantonese songs have, so I'll be skipping them. Although Teng is better known for her Mandarin albums, her songs were also influenced by Japanese Enka style and by older Taiwan min-ge songs.  
[江蕙 \- 你著忍耐 / You Must Endure (by Jody Chiang)](https://youtu.be/k-7c95M6zSU) (1983)

Chen Ying-Git is a famous female singer of Taiwanese Hakka heritage, who has also produced albums from the 1980s through the 1990s like Jody Chiang. One of her famous songs is 海海人生. She sings a famous duet called 酒醉黑白話 with Taiwanese male singer Yu Tian, who also sings in Mandarin.  
[陳盈潔-家家有本難唸的經·情人的眼淚·意亂情迷(1981)專輯-香港瑞城唱片](https://youtu.be/GHjmfva2B-c) (1981)
