---
layout: post
title: "751:"
date: 2023-01-07
---

Arabic Classical Music

The tradition of Arabic classical music dates back to guidelines for modulation, rhythm and tuning set down in treatises in the 8th and 9th centuries. Like much pan-Islamic music, Arabic classical is modal (based on the maqam system) and monophonic, utilizing un-equal temperament. Unlike Arabic Folk Music, Arabic classical relies heavily on complex improvisation and modulation. Instrumental improvisations, called taqsim, generally features a solo performer, usually on a string instrument like the oud. Vocal music is accompanied by a small ensemble (as in Iraqi Maqam) and often involves modal improvisation (layali) and/or the recitation of poetic texts (muwashshah, mawwal).

In the 20th century Egypt was the center of activity for classical music, due to a growing entertainment and recording industry in Cairo. This led to the development of Traditional Arabic Pop, which was strongly influenced by traditional classical music.

Major modern classical artists include Munir Bashir, Yûsuf Omar and فريد الأطرش‎ \[Farid el- Atrache\].

Here's a performance by Umm Kulthum, "Enta Omri" (You Are My Life) at the Olympia Théâtre in Paris, 1967\.  
[Umm Kulthum ( أم كلثوم ) live; "Enta Omri" (English subtitles)](https://youtu.be/XPGHpBOt5sE)  
Umm Kulthum was an Egyptian singer, songwriter, and film actress active from the 1920s to the 1970s. She was given the honorific title "Kawkab el-charq". She is considered a national icon in her native Egypt; she has been dubbed "The Voice of Egypt", the "Lady of Arabic Song" and "Egypt's Fourth Pyramid".
