---
layout: post
title: "773:"
date: 2023-01-29
---

Ars subtilior

During the final period of late medieval music (around 1380-1420), ars subtilior succeeded Ars nova. Musically, the productions of the ars subtilior are highly refined, complex, and difficult to sing, and probably were produced, sung, and enjoyed by a small audience of specialists.  It still used the technique of isorhythm invented by theorists and composers of the preceding period but with even more complexity. The result is so refined that the musicologist Richard H. Hoppin wrote, "not until the twentieth century did music again reach the most subtle refinements and rhythmic complexities of the manneristic style."

If ars nova's mix of the sacred and the secular offended the Roman Catholic Church, ars subtilior's works are mainly secular songs created for a small public of connoisseurs. In the history of art, this musical genre corresponds to the International Gothic and Flamboyant Gothic styles in painting and architecture. These arose directly before the Renaissance Period, which was characterized by the discovery and use of perspective, the taste for harmony, balance and light between the voices in music and philosophy (humanism).

[Non arà ma' pietà](https://youtu.be/ymh14Dd-eUE)  
[A l'arme, A l'arme](https://youtu.be/hyv4BV2Xmto)

Renaissance (c. 1400-c. 1600\)

Renaissance music is traditionally understood to cover European music of the 15th and 16th centuries, later than the Renaissance era as it is understood in other disciplines. Rather than starting from the early 14th-century ars nova, the Trecento music was treated by musicology as a coda to Medieval music and the new era dated from the rise of triadic harmony and the spread of the ' contenance angloise ' style from Britain to the Burgundian School. A convenient watershed for its end is the adoption of basso continuo at the beginning of the Baroque period.

Music was increasingly freed from medieval constraints, and more variety was permitted in range, rhythm, harmony, form, and notation. On the other hand, rules of counterpoint became more constrained, particularly with regard to treatment of dissonances. In the Renaissance, music became a vehicle for personal expression.

The period may be very roughly subdivided, into an early, middle, and late (with a lot of overlap).
