---
layout: post
title: "787:"
date: 2023-02-12
---

Here's perhaps my personal favorite classical work of the late romantic period, Piano Concerto no.2 op.18 by Sergei Rachmaninoff.  
[Rachmaninoff: Piano Concerto no.2 op.18 \- Anna Fedorova \- Complete Live Concert \- HD](https://youtu.be/rEGOihjqO9w)

Sergei Vasilyevich Rachmaninoff was a Russian-American composer, virtuoso pianist, and conductor. Rachmaninoff is widely considered one of the finest pianists of his day and, as a composer, one of the last great representatives of Romanticism in Russian classical music. Early influences of Tchaikovsky, Rimsky-Korsakov, and other Russian composers gave way to a thoroughly personal idiom notable for its song-like melodicism, expressiveness and rich orchestral colours. The piano is featured prominently in Rachmaninoff's compositional output and he made a point of using his skills as a performer to fully explore the expressive and technical possibilities of the instrument.

Modernist (c. 1890–c. 1975)

Encompassing a wide variety of post-Romantic styles, modernist classical music includes late romantic, impressionist, expressionist, and neoclassical styles of composition. Modernism marked an era when many composers rejected certain values of the common practice period, such as traditional tonality, melody, instrumentation, and structure. Some music historians regard musical modernism as an era extending from about 1890 to 1930\.

Others consider that modernism ended with one or the other of the two world wars, or later. Still other authorities claim that modernism is not associated with any historical era, but rather is "an attitude of the composer; a living construct that can evolve with the times".

Last rec was on the late romantic, so the next recs will focus on impressionist, expressionist, and neoclassical styles.
