---
layout: post
title: "780:"
date: 2023-02-05
---

Baroque/Classical transition c. 1750–1760

In his book The Classical Style, author and pianist Charles Rosen claims that from 1755 to 1775, composers groped for a new style that was more effectively dramatic. In the High Baroque period, dramatic expression was limited to the representation of individual affects (the "doctrine of affections", or what Rosen terms "dramatic sentiment"). For example, in Handel's oratorio Jephtha, the composer renders four emotions separately, one for each character, in the quartet "O, spare your daughter".

[Jephtha, HWV 70, Pt. 2: Quartet. O Spare Your Daughter\! (Storgè/Hamor/Jephtha/Zebul)](https://youtu.be/vN5fUNLdFig)

Eventually this depiction of individual emotions came to be seen as simplistic and unrealistic; composers sought to portray multiple emotions, simultaneously or progressively, within a single character or movement ("dramatic action"). Thus in the finale of act 2 of Mozart's Die Entführung aus dem Serail, the lovers move "from joy through suspicion and outrage to final reconciliation."

[Hallstein, Grist, Alva, Unger \- Die Entführung Act 2 finale (English subtitles)](https://youtu.be/Gjc6xh56SnQ)

Musically speaking, this "dramatic action" required more musical variety. Whereas Baroque music was characterized by seamless flow within individual movements and largely uniform textures, composers after the High Baroque sought to interrupt this flow with abrupt changes in texture, dynamic, harmony, or tempo. Among the stylistic developments which followed the High Baroque, the most dramatic came to be called Empfindsamkeit, (roughly "sensitive style"), and its best-known practitioner was Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach (the fifth child of Johann Sebastian Bach). Composers of this style employed the above-discussed interruptions in the most abrupt manner, and the music can sound illogical at times.
