---
layout: post
title: "752:"
date: 2023-01-08
---

Iraqi Maqam

The Iraqi maqam is a form of vocal Arabic Classical Music from Iraq, commonly considered to be a particularly refined application of the maqam system found in Islamic Modal Music throughout the Arab world. It should be noted that the word "maqam" in Iraq also refers to entire compositions besides the modal system. The style is characterized by its highly structured but semi-improvised and rhythmically complex compositions that take years to master through disciplined studies, and its resulting highly meditative textures.

Historically, the exact origins of the Iraqi maqam are unknown. Believed to be at least a 400 years old tradition, it is commonly speculated that it was brought by the invading Ottoman Empire in the 16th century. Another common origin story tells that it was formed around the peak of the Abbasid Caliphate (8th-13th century) when Baghdad played the role of the caliphate’s political and cultural capital. And as such the style would have been born from the conversion of multiple influences from several civilizations like the Persians, the Bedouins, Turkmen, Kurds and rural Arabs. Some even theorize that the genre finds its roots in ancient Mesopotamian Music.

Up until the 20th century, Iraqi maqam was regularly performed in urban centers of major cities like Baghdad, Basra, Kirkuk and Mosul. The style could be altered depending on the context, it was for instance an important style for Islamic religious music/recitation. The genre however was so widespread that it was even used by market vendors and to encourage sportsmen in zurkhanes, as well as in private houses and Baghdadi coffeehouses called gahawi. A full performance of Iraqi maqam in those coffeehouses could go on for 9 hours for instance. Iraqi maqam music has since known a decline due to the wide popularity of imported Egyptian orchestras, Western Classical Music and Arabic Pop, but the style still plays an essential part of Iraqi traditional culture to this day.

The genre is built around set structures which consist of specific maqam modes, whereby certain singing forms are used to perform poems (either a qasida poem sung in classical Arabic or a zuheiri in the Iraqi colloquial dialect) to the backing of an ensemble. There are 56 different Iraqi maqam compositions in total which all follow one of the eight types of seven-tone scaled maqamat/modes. The choice of the poem is up to the performer but must follow a AAA BBB A structure (the letters representing homophones) which is adapted to the maqam form.

Musically, the genre possesses a repertoire of 100 melodies, all of which having a unique name. Despite being a fixed set, it’s still open to the performer to interpret the melodies and bring their own personal take on them. Each melody also has a structural function to the composition. A maqam would start with an instrumental part (the muqaddimah), before switching to the opening vocal melody (tahrir) that gets repeated throughout the composition and would then proceed to the secondary melodies (called qita' and awsal/a wusla).

هلال (Hilal) by Naseer Shamma & Oyoun, released
