---
layout: post
title: "756:"
date: 2023-01-12
---

Hindustani Classical Music

The Hindustani classical music of contemporary North India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan incorporates Arabic Classical Music and Persian Classical Music in highly complex and integrated ways, which has resulted in the development of entire new ragas and the development or modification of major musical instruments. A characteristic feature of this style is the gradual acceleration of tempo, leading to a final climax, as well as a more pronounced focus on improvisation and less focus on singing than its Carnatic counterpart (although vocals remain an integral part regardless). Common instruments include the sitar, tanpura, santoor, bansuri, and tabla.

Unlike Carnatic classical music, Hindustani classical music places relatively less importance on vocals. However, vocals still form an integral part and can be divided into various forms: the traditional ones include Khyal, Dhrupad, and Tarana while those less beholden to traditional concepts (and therefore those that have more crossover with popular music) include the Ghazal, Thumri, and Qawwali.

Hindustani classical music since its inception has been a mainstay in South Asian culture and remains widely popular today, helping shape contemporary South Asian Pop, Rock, and Filmi music and broader South Asian culture in general.

From the 1988 album Rāg Madhuvantī / Rāg Miśra Tilang by Shivkumar Sharma (credited with adapting the santoor for Indian classical music) & Zakir Hussain (awarded the Padma Shri in 1988, and the Padma Bhushan in 2002).  
[Rag Misra Tilang](https://youtu.be/2OFNsrPwX-g?t=378)

I timestamped close to where the tabla come in, since I think people probably care more about that kind of action.
