---
layout: post
title: "749:"
date: 2023-01-05
---

Byzantine Music

Music from the Byzantine era. This era (330 AD \- 1453 AD) largely overlaps with the Medieval era, but Byzantine Music is not the same as Medieval Classical Music due to the pronounced Eastern influences.

Specifically, byzantine chant is the liturgical chant of Christian churches following the Orthodox rite. It is highly likely derived mostly from Hebraic (Church of Jerusalem) and early Syrian Christian (Church of Antioch) liturgical chants.

Byzantine chant has three "genera": the diatonic, the chromatic, and the enharmonic. It is also built on a modal system of octoechos (eight tones).

In the Orthodox Church today, Byzantine chant is still used as the liturgical music form of the Churches of Constantinople, Alexandria, Antioch, Jerusalem, Macedonia, Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Greece, and Albania.

Two albums worth a listen:  
[Chants de l'Église de Rome des VIIe et VIIIe siècles: période byzantine](https://youtu.be/GoWy1V6GSyE)  
[Sœur Marie Keyrouz, S.B.C‎– Chant Byzantin \- Passion Et Résurrection (1989)](https://youtu.be/K4BraNEF3FY) (this one's more accessible)

Moving ahead to the many genres that are considered "Islamic Modal Music"

Islamic Modal Music identifies a common lineage for traditional classical music stretching from Morocco to central Asia. With influences dating back to Ancient Greek Music, these genres became gradually formalized and diffused following the development and expansion of Islam in the 7th century, and the corresponding widespread cultural influence of Persian Classical Music, Arabic Classical Music and Turkish Classical Music. These traditions share a common modal system whose local variants are referred to as maqām (Arabic), dastgāh (Persian), makam (Turkish), maqam (Uzbek/Tajik), muqam (Uyghur), tab' (Andalusí), mugam (Azeri), and maqam (Sephardic), even sharing many similarities with the raga of Hindustani Classical Music and echoes of Byzantine Music (which you may have identified on the previous rec). Thus the name does not refer to music performed only by Muslims — this modal tradition has also had a profound influence on musical styles in the non-Muslim world.

These systems are not identical, but music of these cultural groups do share many common elements, due to a common evolution and frequent cultural interaction. The similar foundational modal systems prioritize melodic phrasing over harmony, utilize a non-equal-tempered division of the octave resulting in microtonal scales, and place improvisation at the center of performance. The compositions in these styles make frequent use of song cycles and suites, often moving between vocal and instrumental sections and modulating through different modes, each of which is thought to express specific emotional content. Historically, this music was based around an oral tradition, but the 19th and 20th centuries saw efforts at placing music of the maqam tradition within a system of European staff notation (made difficult by the many quarter tones and commas used, and the absence of absolute pitch).

#
