---
layout: post
title: "792:"
date: 2023-02-17
---

German Neoclassicism

Proceeding from Ferruccio Busoni, who was an Italian composer, pianist, conductor, editor, writer, and teacher.  
[Busoni, Piano Concerto in C Major Op. 39](https://youtu.be/ohPzurDZzZ4?t=978)

Paul Hindemith was a German composer, music theorist, teacher, violist and conductor. He founded the Amar Quartet in 1921, touring extensively in Europe. As a composer, he became a major advocate of the Neue Sachlichkeit (new objectivity) style of music in the 1920s, with compositions such as Kammermusik, including works with viola and viola d'amore as solo instruments in a neo-Bachian spirit. The New Objectivity was a movement in German art that arose during the 1920s as a reaction against expressionism.  
[Hindemith | Kammermusik op. 24 Nr. 1](https://youtu.be/20gwYJz_Il0?t=13)

And that's everything I said I'll cover of the Western Classical music tradition. This series went from rec 770 to rec 792, making it the longest series of related recs yet.

Something interesting to consider about the timeline:

In a very general sense, the western tradition of popular music and aesthetics tends to go back and forth between rigidity to flexibility (in emotionality, experimentality, etc), as a reaction to whatever the previous sensibility was. Consider Baroque, characterized by the use of complex tonal counterpoint and the use of a basso continuo following the simple songs of the previous periods. Classical, which followed, established many norms of composition, presentation, predominance, and style. Romantic, which followed Classical, was characterized by increased attention to expression, emotion, and fluidity.

At the start of the modernist period, it seems as though the rate of flip-flopping between 'conservative' and 'progressive' music taste greatly increased (though the taste has been far more progressive as a whole). Consider the opposition of New Objectivity in the 1920s to Expressionism, which itself was young and born in the late 1910s.

The focus till now has been on classical music so I won't get into it, but in modern times that process seems to continue, despite dramatic changes with the newfound accessibility of music. It's an interesting topic I'm sure I'll revisit at some point.

Anyway, here's the list of my favorite listens from the previous 22 recs:

Medieval \- Ars Nova (1310-1380)  
Guillaume de Machaut's “La Messe de Nostre Dame”  
[Guillaume de Machaut “La Messe de Nostre Dame” (Jeremy Summerly & Oxford Camerata)](https://youtu.be/cytjjiYL5p4) (composed 14th century before 1365\)  
Widely regarded as one of the masterpieces of medieval music and of all religious music, written by the most important poet and composer of the 14th century. So many incredible musical developments and ideas from this period, which you can hear all of in this piece.

Rennaissance \- Third Generation (1480–1520)  
Josquin des Prez's "Mille regretz"  
[Josquin des Prez / Mille regretz](https://youtu.be/dkfVzCZ68_Q) (15th century)  
Beautiful, plangent simplicity. You can hear the new variety in range, rhythm, form, and notation, but especially in harmony and texture. For a longer work with similar traits that I also love, check out Miserere mei Deus secundum "Psalm 50" (performed by De Labyrintho).

Baroque \- Late Baroque (1680-1750)  
George Frideric Handel's "Sinfonia in B-Flat Major, HWV II. Adagio"  
[Handel Edition Vol.1](https://youtu.be/fRonvLhe0Yg?t=4088) (1709)

Bach's "Concerto for two violins in D minor BWV 1043"  
[Bach \- Concerto for two violins in D minor BWV 1043 \- Sato and Deans | Netherlands Bach Society](https://youtu.be/ILKJcsET-NM?t=7) (1731)

The Baroque saw an incredible influx of musical developments from the Rennaissance. The works of Bach and Handel were it's pinnacle. Handel's being the peak of the melodic "high baroque" style. Bach's being perhaps all of history's pinnacle for the polyphonic form.

Classical \- Late Classical into Early Romantic (1790–1830)  
Franz Schubert's "String Quartet No.13, D.804, op. 29" "Rosamunde"  
[Franz Schubert \- String Quartet No.13, D.804, op. 29 "Rosamunde" (1824)](https://youtu.be/56iIqFAy7wA) (1823)  
Schubert's music exmeplifies the best works of the late classical leading into the early romantic. His songs set a standard that was unsurpassed for more than a century.

Romantic \- Early Romantic (c. 1800–c. 1830)  
Ludwig van Beethoven's "Symphony No. 9 in D minor, Op. 125"  
[Beethoven 9th Symphony \- Herbert Von Karajan (1080p)](https://youtu.be/O3MVY6UiMag?t=2435) (1824)  
Beethoven's greatest work by many accounts, and one of the supreme musical masterpieces. The Finale is my favorite movement.

Romantic \- Middle Romantic (c. 1830-c. 1880\)  
Johannes Brahms's "Danzas Húngaras"  
[Brahms: Danzas húngaras \- François López-Ferrer \- Orquesta Joven de la Sinfónica de Galicia](https://youtu.be/y67eiAy7lbo?t=17) (1873)  
Brahms has been considered both a traditionalist and an innovator, by his contemporaries and by later writers. His music is rooted in the structures and compositional techniques of the Classical masters. Embedded within those structures are deeply romantic motifs.

Romantic \- Late Romantic (c. 1880 \- 1990\)  
Sergei Vasilyevich Rachmaninoff's "Piano Concerto no.2 op.18"  
[Rachmaninoff: Piano Concerto no.2 op.18 \- Anna Fedorova \- Complete Live Concert \- HD](https://youtu.be/rEGOihjqO9w) (1901)

Rachmaninoff was born into Russian aristocracy. His family had strong musical and military leanings. After the disastrous 1897 premiere of his First Symphony, Rachmaninoff suffered a psychological breakdown that prevented composition for three years. Musically, this piece demonstrates everything that makes the late Romantic great. More than that, this piece symbolizes Rachmaninoff's failures and depression, but also his recovery and remergence. Serious but immensely emotive.

Modernist \- Impressionism (c. 1890–c. 1930)  
Joseph Maurice Ravel's "Gaspard de la Nuit"  
[Ravel \- Gaspard de la nuit (Full)](https://youtu.be/n_yIgrkSNzE) (1908)  
A fiendishly hard solo piano work 'haunted by strange sprites, devilish creatures and the spectre of death.' After this piece, in the 1920s after the war, Ravel had lost much of his physical and mental stamina, and his emotional equilibrium was severely compromised. His output, never large, became smaller. Nonetheless, after the death of Debussy in 1918, he was still generally seen, in France and abroad, as the leading French composer of the era.

Modernist \- Earliest Expressionism (c. 1900–c. 1930)  
Arnold Schoenberg's "Verklärte Nacht"  
[Verklärte Nacht, Op. 4](https://youtu.be/gQ_2VbKOGfY) (1899)  
Verklärte Nacht stands on the cusp of a new century and as such is a work which may be viewed as a sort of watershed between two worlds. It looks back to late 19C Romanticism but also forward to the Expressionist experimentalism of 20C music.
