---
layout: post
title: "745:"
date: 2023-01-01
---

Seems about time for the 3rd batch of digital fusion recs. But first, a summary of some of the digital fusion stuff I've covered so far:

I did a format of 4 digital fusion recs previously on 355 (which included fusions involving chipfunk, FM Synthesis, chipjazz, and vgm remix) and 506 (which included wonky, future bass, as well as house, vaporwave, glitchpop, and bossa nova). I'm gonna reduce the number to a more manageable 3 going forward.

In addition to the previous 2 batches, the soundtrack for Monument Valley on 334 covered ambient digifu made up of acoustic parts with electronic accompaniments.

On rec 401 I talked about Sungazer, which can be classified as Nu Jazz / Wonky / Glitch Hop with Chiptune elements.

Rec 321 was on Shnabubula, a new-age / neo-classical / jazz / chiptune musician who fuses piano with electronic intrumentation in a way I find really interesting.

Mort Garson's work, particularly with Deja Vu as recced on 268 is a great example of fusion of the baroque composition style with electronic instrumentation and genres.

PSYQUI from rec 239 fuses Psytrance, Future Bass, Glitchbreaks and Drum and Bass with chip instrumentation.

Aivi (and Surasshu) from rec 106, who coined Digital Fusion as a term, pioneered fusions of chip instrumentation with various western styles.

EX-LYD's digital fusion from 81 is roughly influenced by hip-hop, but it's very much their own unique sound.

This time, I'm talking about these three:  
Fighting Chance from Dicey Dungeons  
[Chipzel \- 04 Fighting Chance](https://youtu.be/oGL5m0qWzWA) \- Hip Hop Jazz-Funk/Jazz Fusion feel

Prosoundnogyakushu by TORIENA.  
[Prosoundnogyakushu](https://youtu.be/O-rPm4aiHCE) \- Chip Glitch

Lovely City from Lovely Planet (Calum Bowen also did the OST for Pikuniku)  
[Lovely City](https://youtu.be/ZGdyS2FDm2U) \- Kawaii Future Bass / Bitpop feel

These three are all similarly energetic. I want to highlight that the subgenres each track is influenced by are related to the previous batches' subgenres of chipjazz, glitchpop, and future bass
