---
layout: post
title: "791:"
date: 2023-02-16
---

French Neoclassicism

Proceeding partly from Eric Alfred Leslie Satie, who was a French composer and pianist. He studied at the Paris Conservatoire, but was an undistinguished student and obtained no diploma. In the 1880s he worked as a pianist in café-cabaret in Montmartre, Paris, and began composing works, mostly for solo piano, such as his Gymnopédies and Gnossiennes.

[Erik Satie \- Gymnopédie No.1](https://youtu.be/S-Xm7s9eGxU)  
[Erik Satie \- Gnossiennes 1-6](https://youtu.be/y7kvGqiJC4g)

Some interesting facts about Satie, some of dubious validity:  
\- He was died by his alcoholism at age 59\.  
\- He was involved with multiple occultist and spiritual sects, one of which he founded and was the sole congregant of.  
\- He was friends with Claude Debussy and Maurice Ravel.  
\- He described his music as "furniture music," background music (before background music was a thing) played by live performers.  
\- He walked 10 miles daily from his house to work, stopping at cafès along the way. He always carried an umbrella with him.  
\- He lived in filthy conditions, and in the 27 years leading to his death, he hadn't admitted a single visitor to his room. His apartment, apparently, was filled with over 100 umbrellas and two grand pianos, one placed on top of the other.  
\- He carried a hammer with him wherever he went, for self-protection.  
\- He had only one confirmed romantic relationship in his life. It was a marriage that lasted for 6 months following a proposal immediately after their first meeting.  
\- Parade, a ballet choreographed by Leonide Massine, with music by Erik Satie, costumes by Pablo Picasso, and a one-act scenario by Jean Cocteau, caused a riot, and placed Satie in jail for 8 days.  
\- Although probably just a joke, he once wrote that only ate white foods, and preferred to boil his wine, then drink it cold.

Satie's example guided a new generation of French composers away from post-Wagnerian impressionism towards a sparer, terser style. He is an influence on more recent, minimalist composers such as John Cage and John Adams.

Igor Fyodorovich Stravinsky was a Russian composer, pianist and conductor, later of French (from 1934\) and American (from 1945\) citizenship. He is widely considered one of the most important and influential composers of the 20th century and a pivotal figure in modernist music.

Stravinsky's compositional career was notable for its stylistic diversity (Russian phase, Neoclassicism incorporating concerto grosso, fugue, and symphony, and later serial techniques). He first achieved international fame with three ballets commissioned by the impresario Sergei Diaghilev and first performed in Paris by Diaghilev's Ballets Russes: The Firebird (1910), Petrushka (1911), and The Rite of Spring (1913). The last transformed the way in which subsequent composers thought about rhythmic structure and was largely responsible for Stravinsky's enduring reputation as a revolutionary who pushed the boundaries of musical design.  
[The Firebird \- Stravinsky](https://youtu.be/kd1xYKGnOEw?t=23)  
[Stravinsky The Rite of Spring // London Symphony Orchestra/Sir Simon Rattle](https://youtu.be/EkwqPJZe8ms?t=40)
