---
layout: post
title: "746:"
date: 2023-01-02
---

As a sort of continuation from that previous rec, here are a couple tracks from the soundtrack to Athenian Rhapsody, an upcoming comedic RPG that takes a lot of influence from Undertale and Earthbound.

[Press Start](https://youtu.be/yTWTYuOQVrE)  
[Fish Fry](https://youtu.be/UvA-JrSKVL0)

Rather than digital fusion or chiptune, I prefer to call this style of music "post-chiptune."

As described by freelance writer Thomas Quillfeldt, Post-Chiptune is "video game soundtrack music that feels very video gamey and is clearly paying homage to retro games and chiptune without sticking rigidly to the sonic limitations of what, for example, 8- or 16-bit sound chips could achieve."

In other words, Post-chiptune describes chiptune-styled music created using modern software or digital instrumentation.

I've already recced post-chiptune a couple times without describing it, most notably in the Shovel Knight OST recs from 207 to 210\.

The Hurrian Hymn was discovered in the 1950s on a clay tablet inscribed with Cuneiform text. It’s the oldest surviving melody and is over 3,400 years old.  The hymn was discovered on a clay tablet in Ugarit, now part of modern-day Syria, and is dedicated to the Hurrians’ goddess of the orchards Nikkal.

I know we pretty much just got done with a long series of related genres (the reggae stuff), but I'd like to go through around 20 more right away. These ones are also diverse and, in my opinion, very interesting to learn about. I might combine a few into single recs, but we'll see when we get there.

This time I'm working through South Asian Classical music and many of its ancestors and offspring.

First,

The tablet:

[musical score from ugarit clay tablet from ugarit with the hurrian hymn 13th cent bc](https://assets.classicfm.com/2016/35/musical-score-from-ugarit-clay-tablet-from-ugarit-with-the-hurrian-hymn-13th-cent-bc-1472635579.jpg)
