---
layout: post
title: "763:"
date: 2023-01-19
---

Arabic Belly Dance Music

Arabic belly dance music is music used as accompaniment to traditional belly dances. It was originated in Egypt, though there are also Turkish and Greek belly dances. The music itself is performed mostly on traditional Arabic instruments (mostly on tablas, tambourines, flutes, and ouds). There are two main styles of bellydance music named Raqs Baladi/Beledi and Raqs Sharqi. Sometimes bellydancers also use Shaabi. A couple of notable musicians within this genre are Hossam Ramzy and Issam Houshan.

It's a really musically rich and diverse genre. I'd recommend looking into the traditional stuff on your own if that what you're interested in.

Here're two not so traditional Arabic Bellydance albums:

Baligh Hamdi & Magid Khan 's 1980 album Indo-Arabic Variations:  
[Indo Arabic Variations (Egipto, 1980\) de Baligh Hamdi & Magid Khan](https://youtu.be/wxogi-NKqPE)

This one mixes together Arabic and Hindustani classical music.

Omar Khorshid's 1974 album Rhythms From the Orient:  
[Omar Khorshid – Rhythms From The Orient (1974 \- Full Album)](https://youtu.be/kyswvrOsC_w)  
This album, while based on bellydance music, is also interesting because it was essentially at the forefront of what was possible with an electric guitar and some synthesizers when you approached them from a Middle Eastern standpoint, at the time.

Really unique sounding album.

Here's something else by Khorshid:  
[Omar Khorshid \- Pop Corn](https://youtu.be/8KTFYpbSJJY) (1974 Belly Dance with Omar Khorshid & His Magic Guitar Volume 3\)

And that's all I'll do on South Asian Classical music, its acestors, and its offspring, for now. I expected to spend a little more time on this, but it ended up being relatively quick with just 15 recs.
