---
layout: post
title: "785:"
date: 2023-02-10
---

Early Romantic

Ludwig van Beethoven is considered one of the transitioning composers bridging the Classical era and the Romantic era. In his late works, he pioneered a new approach to utilizing orchestras, by varying instrumentation and timbre (e.g. his use of a chorus in the Ninth Symphony). Additionally, Beethoven inspired later Romantic composers through his advanced use of harmonies that modulated keys much more drastically than in the past, and through his use of melodic motifs that extended and evolved through lengthy pieces.

The Symphony No. 9 in D minor, Op. 125, is a choral symphony, the final complete symphony by Ludwig van Beethoven, composed between 1822 and 1824\. It was first performed in Vienna on 7 May 1824\. The symphony is regarded by many critics and musicologists as Beethoven's greatest work and one of the supreme achievements in the history of music.

Here's the beginning of the first movement, Allegro ma non troppo, un poco maestoso or "Cheerful but not too much, a little majestic"  
[Beethoven 9th Symphony \- Herbert Von Karajan (1080p)](https://youtu.be/O3MVY6UiMag)

Here's the beginning of Finale. If you don't have time to listen to the full thing, this part is my favorite. The finale begins with a really captivated cello part, that's amazing to listen to with good speakers or headphones.

3 minutes into the finale (43:51) you get a beautiful section with interesting textures between the violins and oboe.

6 minutes in (46:24) the choral part begins.  
[Beethoven 9th Symphony \- Herbert Von Karajan (1080p)](https://youtu.be/O3MVY6UiMag?t=2435)

For anyone interested in orchestral music, I on't know of a more worthwhile listen than Beethoven's 9th.

Other influential composers of the early Romantic era include Hector Berlioz, Frédéric Chopin, Fanny Mendelssohn, Felix Mendelssohn, Gioachino Rossini, Vincenzo Bellini, Gaetano Donizetti, Niccolò Paganini, Franz Schubert, Clara Schumann, Robert Schumann, Heinrich Marschner and Carl Maria von Weber.

Frédéric Chopin

A Polish composer and virtuoso pianist who wrote primarily for solo piano. He has maintained worldwide renown as a leading musician of his era, one whose "poetic genius was based on a professional technique that was without equal in his generation"  
[Chopin Nocturne E Flat Major Op.9 No.2](https://youtu.be/tV5U8kVYS88)

Niccolò Paganini

An Italian violinist and composer. He was the most celebrated violin virtuoso of his time, and left his mark as one of the pillars of modern violin technique. His 24 Caprices for Solo Violin Op. 1 are among the best known of his compositions and have served as an inspiration for many prominent composers.  
[24 Caprices, Op. 1: No. 24 in A Minor](https://youtu.be/YxPTb0I3SrU)

Felix Mendelssohn

A German composer, pianist, organist and conductor. Mendelssohn's compositions include symphonies, concertos, piano music, organ music and chamber music. His best-known works include the overture and incidental music for A Midsummer Night's Dream, the Italian Symphony, the Scottish Symphony, the oratorio St. Paul, the oratorio Elijah, the overture The Hebrides, the mature Violin Concerto and the String Octet. The melody for the Christmas carol "Hark\! The Herald Angels Sing" is also his. Mendelssohn's Songs Without Words are his most famous solo piano compositions.  
[The Best of Mendelssohn](https://youtu.be/sWiCHa9DFOY)
