---
layout: post
title: "776:"
date: 2023-02-01
---

Late Renaissance (c. 1525 – 1594\)

Music of the Renaissance period culminated during Counter-Reformation (the period of Catholic resurgence that was initiated in response to the Protestant Reformation) in the florid counterpoint of Palestrina (c. 1525 – 1594\) and the Roman School. Palestrina is considered the leading composer of late 16th-century Europe

[Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina \- Missa Nigra sum](https://youtu.be/JImVQBHdF4w) Kyrie and Agnus Dei are two of my favorite choral works.

Baroque (c. 1600-c. 1750\)

Baroque music refers to the period or dominant style of Western classical music composed from about 1600 to 1750\. It followed the Renaissance period, and is followed by the Classical Period. The Baroque period is divided into three major, overlapping phases: early, middle, and late.

Baroque music forms a major portion of the "classical music" canon, and is now widely studied, performed, and listened to. The term "baroque" comes from the Portuguese word barroco, meaning "misshapen pearl". The works of George Frideric Handel and Johann Sebastian Bach are considered the pinnacle of the Baroque period.

The Baroque saw the creation of common-practice tonality, an approach to writing music in which a song or piece is written in a particular key; this type of harmony has continued to be used extensively in Western classical and popular music. During the Baroque era, professional musicians were expected to be accomplished improvisers of both solo and accompaniment parts. Baroque concerts were typically accompanied by a basso continuo group (comprising chord-playing instrumentalists such as harpsichordists) while a group of bass instruments — viol, cello, double bass — played the bassline. A characteristic Baroque form was the dance suite. While the pieces in a dance suite were inspired by actual dance music, dance suites were designed purely for listening, not for accompanying dancers.

During the period composers experimented with finding a fuller sound for each instrumental part (thus creating the orchestra), made changes in musical notation (the development of figured bass as a quick way to notate the chord progression of a song or piece), and developed new instrumental playing techniques. Baroque music expanded the size, range, and complexity of instrumental performance, and also established the mixed vocal/instrumental forms of opera, cantata and oratorio and the instrumental forms of the solo concerto and sonata as musical genres.

Throughout the Baroque era, new developments in music originated in Italy, after which it took up to 20 years before they were broadly adopted in rest of the Western classical music practice. For instance, Italian composers switched to the galant style around 1730, while German composers such as Johann Sebastian Bach largely continued to write in the baroque style up to 1750\.

As such, when analyzing Baroque phases, composers are often divided into 'In Italy', and 'Elsewhere'.

The Florentine Camerata was a group of humanists, musicians, poets and intellectuals in late Renaissance Florence who gathered under the patronage of Count Giovanni de' Bardi to discuss and guide trends in music and drama. In reference to music, they based their ideals on a perception of ancient Greek musical drama that valued discourse and oration. Accordingly, they rejected their contemporaries' use of polyphony and instrumental music, and discussed such ancient Greek music devices as monody, which consisted of a solo singing accompanied by a kithara. The early realizations of these ideas, including Jacopo Peri's Dafne and L'Euridice, marked the beginning of opera, which was a catalyst for Baroque music.
