---
layout: post
title: "770:"
date: 2023-01-26
---

Roots in Christian Liturgical Music \- Armenian Church Music

The Western classical tradition formally begins with music created by and for the early Christian Church. It is probable that the early Church wished to disassociate itself from the predominant music of ancient Greece and Rome, as it was a reminder of the pagan religion it had persecuted and by which it had been persecuted. As such, it remains unclear as to what extent the music of the Christian Church, and thus Western classical music as a whole, was influenced by preceding ancient music.

Armenia was the first nation to adopt Christianity as an official religion in 301 AD, although, Christianity was secretly practiced by an increasing number Armenians during the first and second centuries.

Armenian sacred music, which is one of the oldest branches of Christian culture, is the predominantly vocal music of the Armenian Apostolic Church. It emerged in the IV-X cc., after the adoption of Christianity in 301 AD.

The subgenres of Armenian sacred music are the sharakan (շարական, sacred hymn), the gandz (գանձ, florid chant), and the tagh (տաղ, ode). The inventors of the Armenian alphabet, Մեսրոպ Մաշտոց \[Mesrop Mashtots\] and Սահակ Պարթև \[Sahak Parthev\], who had translated the Bible and the Divine Liturgy, arranged the musical part of the Liturgy to accommodate church ceremonies, thus becoming the first composers of the sharakan. Also called the Armenian plainchant, it is composed in oktōēchos, a similarity shared with the Byzantine Chant, and is written in the khaz (խազ), a form of indigenous musical notation. Most ancient chants were written in prose, with versified hymns appearing much later. Gradually, a correlation of notes to syllables changed from syllabic (1:1) to pneumatic (1-2-3-4 : 1), and later to melismatic.

[Komitas \- Armenian Divine Liturgy/Армянская божественная литургия, 2/3](https://youtu.be/2LW9fJaxbXk)  
[Grigor Narekatsy ''Havoun, havoun (About the bird)''The Music of Armenia Vol. 2, Medieval Music](https://youtu.be/C60TmZBUjQQ)

Medieval (c. 500-c. 1400\)

Medieval classical music refers to Western Classical Music composed during the Medieval period, which lasted approximately from the 5th to the late 15th centuries. The predominance of Christian Liturgical Music and the invention of modern musical notation by Guido d'Arezzo are two fundamental aspects of this period.

Before the advent of feudalism (9th century), classical music from Western and Central Europe was scarce compared to Byzantine Music, which is thought to have flourished following the fall of Rome. From ca. 900 to 1150, Gregorian Chant was the hegemonic musical form in Europe. Notable composers of Gregorian chant and other forms of Plainsong include Hildegard von Bingen (rec 481\) and Odo of Cluny.

Between ca. 1150 and 1450, Medieval music experienced a remarkable evolution that can be divided into three main phases: Ars antiqua (old art, or early), Ars nova (new art, or High), and Ars subtilior (more subtle art, or Late). The development of Medieval classical music included increasingly complex rhythmic structures, the appearance of polyphonic textures, and the combination of elements from secular and sacred music. By the late 15th century, early Renaissance Music had expanded through Europe, whereas Medieval music had fallen out of fashion. During the 20th century, some Modern Classical composers such as Carl Orff revived Medieval forms with a modernist approach.
