---
layout: post
title: "788:"
date: 2023-02-13
---

Impressionism (c. 1890–c. 1930)

Impressionism in music was a movement among various composers in Western classical music (mainly du ring the late 19th and early 20th centuries) whose music focuses on mood and atmosphere, "conveying the moods and emotions aroused by the subject rather than a detailed tone‐picture". "Impressionism" is a philosophical and aesthetic term borrowed from late 19th-century French painting after Monet's Impression, Sunrise. Composers were labeled Impressionists by analogy to the Impressionist painters who use starkly contrasting colors, effect of light on an object, blurry foreground and background, flattening perspective, etc. to make the observer focus their attention on the overall impression.

(Achille) Claude Debussy was a French composer. He is sometimes seen as the first Impressionist composer. He was among the most influential composers of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.

[Debussy: Suite bergamasque, L. 75 \- IV. Passepied](https://youtu.be/O0GuQ1CNFa8) Passepied is the very first song I recced on Discord, though it was a bluegrass version  
[Debussy: Arabesque No. 1 in E major (Alain Lefèvre)](https://youtu.be/qNoq240t54I)

Joseph Maurice Ravel was a French composer, pianist and conductor also associated with impressionist music. In the 1920s and 1930s Ravel was internationally regarded as France's greatest living composer.

A slow and painstaking worker, Ravel composed fewer pieces than many of his contemporaries. Among his works to enter the repertoire are pieces for piano, chamber music, two piano concertos, ballet music, two operas and eight song cycles; he wrote no symphonies or church music. Many of his works exist in two versions: first, a piano score and later an orchestration.

Here's a performance of the piano score for Gaspard de la nuit, often considered one of the most exceptionally difficult piano suites in existence.  
[Ravel \- Gaspard de la nuit (Full)](https://youtu.be/n_yIgrkSNzE) (written 1908\)

The first part of Gaspard de la nuit, Ondine, is difficult for a number of reasons that might not be immediately obvious. Some of these reasons, as pointed out in the comments:  
1\. Projecting the melody without it sounding forced.  
2\. Pacing of the phrases and separation of them.  
3\. Making the water effects sound “watery”.  
4\. Bringing out all the dynamic contrasts.  
5\. Conveying the emotion and pictures of the poem in music.

The part at 3:36 is seriously one of the most breathtaking, chills-inducing moments in music. The rest of the suite (both the piano and orchestral versions) obviously don't disappoint either.

The third movement, Scarbo, is the hardest of the three.  
[Ravel \- Gaspard de la nuit (Full)](https://youtu.be/n_yIgrkSNzE?t=1001)

Idk bro seems easy enough.

Both Ravel and Debussy rejected the term impressionism. In a 1908 letter, Debussy wrote "imbeciles call \[what I am trying to write in Images\] 'impressionism', a term employed with the utmost inaccuracy, especially by art critics who use it as a label to stick on Turner, the finest creator of mystery in the whole of art\!"
