---
layout: post
title: "769:"
date: 2023-01-25
---

Pierino Ronald "Perry" Como was an Italian-American singer, actor and television personality. During a career spanning more than half a century, he recorded exclusively for RCA Victor for 44 years, after signing with the label in 1943\. From 1973:

[Killing Me Softly with Her Song](https://youtu.be/-UbpcAqRowU)

Here's the version by Roberta Flack, who topped the Billboard charts with the No. 1 singles "The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face", "Killing Me Softly with His Song", "Feel Like Makin' Love", "Where Is the Love" and "The Closer I Get to You." From 1973  
[Roberta Flack \- Killing Me Softly With His Song (Official Audio)](https://youtu.be/DEbi_YjpA-Y)

Following the series of recs on South Asian Classical Music from recs 747-763, I'll talk a bit about the Classical Music tradition of the Western world (primarily Europe).

Classical music is often characterized by formality and complexity in its musical form and harmonic organization, particularly with the use of polyphony. Since at least the ninth century it has been primarily a written tradition, spawning a sophisticated notational system, as well as accompanying literature in analytical, critical, historiographical, musicological and philosophical practices. A foundational component of Western Culture, classical music is frequently seen from the perspective of individual or groups of composers, whose compositions, personalities and beliefs have fundamentally shaped its history.

Though Western music originated in ancient Greece and ancient Rome, Western music for the last 1500 years consists of six predominant periods. I've recced music from each of these periods before, but I think it would be good to organize the genres chronologically.

I won't be talking about most of the preceding ancient music, instead I'll just start with one of the oldest and most relevant branches of Christian culture.
