---
layout: post
title: "755:"
date: 2023-01-11
---

Carnatic Classical Music

The term "Carnatic" refers to the Classical Music and dance culture shared by the Dravidian cultures in South India separate from regional folk genres. Carnatic classical music, dominant in South India and Sri Lanka, tends to be less focused on improvisation and more structured, rhythmic, and focused on singing. Each raga is part of a broader melakarta, which has more defined characteristics and rules for ragas. And although improvisation remains an important part, Carnatic music is mainly sung through standardized compositions. This style of music developed mostly independent of Islamic and Persian influences and is regarded as being closer to the ancient roots of the Vedas, although it has nevertheless evolved as much as its northern counterpart into a form distinct from the ancient religious and spiritual hymns. Common instruments include the veena, harmonium, nadaswaram, mridangam, and morsing.

Vocal music is prominent and most of the instrumental music is distinctively microtonal as a derivation of vocal music. Most Carnatic music is either improvisation based on the melody and rhythm templates of raga and tala, similar to Hindustani Classical Music, or variations on compositions or lyrical texts by the three 18th century composers known as The Carnatic Trinity: Thyagaraja, Muthuswami Dikshitar and Shyama Shastri.

From the 1988 album Le violon de l'Inde du Sud by Lakshminarayana Subramaniam, Indian violinist, composer and conductor, trained in the classical Carnatic music tradition and Western classical music.  
[L. Subramaniam \- Raaga Keerawani: Alapana](https://youtu.be/3FauMOPQ6MA)
