---
layout: post
title: "789:"
date: 2023-02-14
---

Expressionism (c. 1900–c. 1930)

The term expressionism "was probably first applied to music in 1918, especially to Schoenberg", because like the painter Wassily Kandinsky (1866–1944) he avoided "traditional forms of beauty" to convey powerful feelings in his music.

Theodor Adorno interprets the expressionist movement in music as seeking to "eliminate all of traditional music's conventional elements, everything formulaically rigid." This idea has to do with 'serialism,' a compositional method in which pitches are grouped into sets (tone rows) to determine the order and frequency of their use, which I touched upon on recs 338 and 428, and which was developed in its basic form by Schoenberg.

Adorno sees expressionist music as seeking "the truthfulness of subjective feeling without illusions, disguises or euphemisms". Adorno also describes it as concerned with the unconscious, and states that "the depiction of fear lies at the centre" of expressionist music, with dissonance predominating, so that the "harmonious, affirmative element of art is banished". Expressionist music would "thus reject the depictive, sensual qualities that had come to be associated with impressionist music. It would endeavor instead to realize its own purely musical nature—in part by disregarding compositional conventions that placed 'outer' restrictions on the expression of 'inner' visions".

Expressionist music often features a high level of dissonance, extreme contrasts of dynamics, constant changing of textures, "distorted" melodies and harmonies, and angular melodies with wide leaps.

[Arnold Schönberg \- String Quartet No. 2](https://youtu.be/eB5I5iU0OoE?t=9) (written 1908, the same year as Ravel's Gaspard de la Nuit)

The three central figures of musical expressionism are Arnold Schoenberg (1874–1951) and his pupils, Anton Webern (1883–1945) and Alban Berg (1885–1935), the so-called Second Viennese School.

Here's another piece by Schoenberg  
[Verklärte Nacht, Op. 4](https://youtu.be/gQ_2VbKOGfY)

Verklärte Nacht, Op. 4, is a string sextet in one movement composed by Arnold Schoenberg in 1899\. Composed in just three weeks, it is considered his earliest important work. It was inspired by Richard Dehmel's poem of the same name, combined with the influence of Schoenberg's strong feelings upon meeting the sister of his teacher, Alexander von Zemlinsky (1877–1923), whom he married in 1901\.

A symphonic poem or tone poem is a piece of orchestral music, usually in a single continuous movement, which illustrates or evokes the content of a poem, short story, novel, painting, landscape, or other (non-musical) source. Because Verklärte Nacht was originally scored for string sextet, I believe it is the first chamber music written as a symphonic poem.

It's one of my favorite pieces from this time period.

I prefer this performance/recording, but I think the breathing at some parts might bother some people.  
[Arnold Schoenberg \- Verklärte Nacht, Op. 4 (1899)](https://youtu.be/z-O2sWBSxPM)
