---
layout: post
title: "778:"
date: 2023-02-03
---

Middle Baroque (1630 to 1700\)

The rise of the centralized court is one of the economic and political features of what is often labelled the Age of Absolutism, personified by Louis XIV of France. The style of palace, and the court system of manners and arts he fostered became the model for the rest of Europe. The realities of rising church and state patronage created the demand for organized public music, as the increasing availability of instruments created the demand for chamber music (music for a small ensemble of instrumentalists).

One pre-eminent example of a court style composer is Jean-Baptiste Lully. He purchased patents from the monarchy to be the sole composer of operas for the French king and to prevent others from having operas staged. Lully was an early example of a conductor; he would beat the time with a large staff to keep his ensembles together.  
[Jean Baptiste Lully \- Miserere (1664)](https://youtu.be/EEEK5pcd4eI)

Musically, he did not establish the string-dominated norm for orchestras, which was inherited from the Italian opera, and the characteristically French five-part disposition (violins, violas—in hautes-contre, tailles and quintes sizes—and bass violins) had been used in the ballet from the time of Louis XIII. He did, however, introduce this ensemble to the lyric theatre, with the upper parts often doubled by recorders, flutes, and oboes, and the bass by bassoons. Trumpets and kettledrums were frequently added for heroic scenes.

The middle Baroque period in Italy is defined by the emergence of the vocal styles of cantata, oratorio (more on these two next rec), and opera during the 1630s, and a new concept of melody and harmony that elevated the status of the music to one of equality with the words, which formerly had been regarded as pre-eminent. The florid, coloratura monody of the early Baroque gave way to a simpler, more polished melodic style. These melodies were built from short, cadentially delimited ideas often based on stylized dance patterns drawn from the sarabande or the courante.

My favorite middle Baroque composer is Henry Purcell (English). Perhaps the most well-known is Johann Pachelbel (German), from his canon works.  
[The Old Bachelor, Z.607, Henry Purcell](https://youtu.be/GOLCKtPjkY0)
