---
layout: post
title: "753:"
date: 2023-01-09
---

Turkish Classical Music (or Ottoman Classical Music)

Originally developed during the time of the Ottoman Empire, classical music in Turkey was at first generally performed only in palaces, mosques and Mevlevi lodges. However, since then it has become more widespread. Turkish classical music uses the makam modal system, with the primary emphasis being on the singers, who are accompanied by small ensembles of musicians. Famous composers include Dede Efendi and Tanburi Cemil Bey.

From the 2009 album Istanbul: Dimitrie Cantemir 1673-1723 \- Le livre de la science de la musique et les traditions musicales Sépharades et Arméniennes, by Hespèrion XXI / Jordi Savall.  
[ISTANBUL. DİMİTRİE CANTEMİR  Der makām-ı Hüseynī Semâ'î (Mss. D.Cantemir 268\)](https://youtu.be/ou-ZMYyKvxg)  
Hespèrion XXI is an international early music ensemble, I talked about this group back on rec 303\.

fun listen

Dervishes of the Mevlevi sect dance a sema by turning continuously to music that is called tasavvuf musikisi. These compositions, collectively referred to as Turkish Mevlevi Music, are based on Turkish Classical Music makams, and the lyrics are taken from poems written by the Mevlevi Order founder and 13th-century Persian poet, Hanafi faqih, Islamic scholar, Maturidi theologian and Sufi mystic  Rumi. Other tasavvuf poems are used as lyrics on occasion, provided that the poets are from Mevlevi sect. The main instruments used to play Mevlevi music are ney and kudüm.

I did a rec on a bit of the Sufi musical culture back on rec 498\.

Here's a piece from the 1995 album Ocean of Remembrance: Sufi Improvisations & Zhikrs, by Oruç Güvenç.  
[Bismalla ar-Rahman](https://youtu.be/qF0ItqxxjuA)  
Very very repetitive. You could call it medatative. Some would definitely find it boring, but there's a decent groove to it.
