---
layout: post
title: "762:"
date: 2023-01-18
---

Filmi

Filmi is the music of films in the Indian subcontinent, representing the shared musical styles of the linguistically segregated film industries in India, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal. The largest, most popular and most influential is the Bollywood film industry centered in Mumbai (previously Bombay) in which Hindi-Urdu is the primary language. The four main Dravidian languages in South India also have their own film industries that are sometimes referred to with playful nicknames in the manner of "Bollywood": Kollywood is the Tamil-language film industry centered in Chennai, Tamil Nadu; Tollywood is the Telugu-language film industry centered in Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh; Sandalwood is the Kannada-language film industry centered in Bangalore, Karnataka; Mollywood is the Malayalam-language film industry centered in Trivandrum and Kochi, Kerala. The term "Tollywood" is also used for the Bengali-language film industry centered in Kolkata. Many other languages have their own small film industries, often just referred to by the name of the language, e.g. Assamese cinema, Bhojpuri cinema, Gujarati cinema, Konkani cinema, Marathi cinema, Oriya cinema, Punjabi cinema, Sindhi cinema. The Pakistani film industry is dominated by Lahore-based Lollywood, using Pakistani dialects of Hindi-Urdu, but smaller, regional film industries in Pakistan cover languages like Pashto, Balochi and Sindhi.

In the early years of South Asian cinema, filmi was typically composed of South Asian Music folk and classical with some European orchestral flourishes. Additional foreign elements, e.g. Rock & Roll, Mariachi, Funk, Disco, Techno, Hip Hop, etc, have became deeply interwoven in filmi, with a tremendous diversity of genres fused together according to the archetypes established by the most famous music directors.

[Dil Se Re | Dil Se | A. R. Rahman, Anuradha Sriram, Anupama & Febi Mani | Gulzar](https://youtu.be/TcdEOHV3PgA) (1998)  
[Kadhal Rojave \- A R Rahman \- Arvind Swamy, Madhoo \- Roja (1992) \- Tamil Video Song](https://youtu.be/Urr36-p9e5s) (1992)
