---
layout: post
title: "784:"
date: 2023-02-09
---

The First Viennese School is a name mostly used to refer to three composers of the Classical period in late-18th-century Vienna: Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven. Franz Schubert is occasionally added to the list.

Franz Peter Schubert was an Austrian composer of the late Classical and early Romantic eras. Despite his short lifetime, Schubert left behind a vast oeuvre (similar to Mozart), including more than 600 secular vocal works (mainly lieder), seven complete symphonies, sacred music, operas, incidental music, and a large body of piano and chamber music. His major works include "Erlkönig" (D. 328), the Piano Quintet in A major, D. 667 (Trout Quintet), the Symphony No. 8 in B minor, D. 759 (Unfinished Symphony), the "Great" Symphony No. 9 in C major, D. 944, the String Quintet (D. 956), the three last piano sonatas (D. 958–960), the opera Fierrabras (D. 796), the incidental music to the play Rosamunde (D. 797), and the song cycles Die schöne Müllerin (D. 795\) and Winterreise (D. 911).

[Franz Schubert \- String Quartet No.13, D.804, op. 29 "Rosamunde" (1824)](https://youtu.be/56iIqFAy7wA)  
[Franz Schubert String Quintet in C Major, D. 956](https://youtu.be/Dc3iX7x73JY?t=63)

The Classical Period may be my least favorite era of the Western music tradition. Among those previous recs, Piano Trio No. 3 in C minor (Op. 1, No. 3), The Bird, and O Spare Your Daughter are probably the ones I most enjoy listening to.

The final recs in this series will be on the Romantic and Modernist periods, and I think I'll skip postmodern music and contemporary classical music. After those, I'll summarize the songs most worth listening to since rec 770

Romantic (c. 1800–c. 1910)

Romantic music is a stylistic movement in Western Classical music associated with the period of the 19th century commonly referred to as the Romantic era (or Romantic period). It is closely related to the broader concept of Romanticism—the intellectual, artistic and literary movement that became prominent in Western culture from approximately 1798 until 1837\.

Romantic composers sought to create music that was individualistic, emotional, dramatic and often programmatic; reflecting broader trends within the movements of Romantic literature, poetry, art, and philosophy. Romantic music was often ostensibly inspired by (or else sought to evoke) non-musical stimuli, such as nature, literature, poetry, super-natural elements or the fine arts. It included features such as increased chromaticism and moved away from traditional forms.

In part, it was a revolt against social and political norms of the Age of Enlightenment and a reaction against the scientific rationalization of nature.
