---
layout: post
title: "777:"
date: 2023-02-02
---

Early Baroque (1580 to 1650\)

Concerning music theory, the more widespread use of figured bass (aka thorough bass) represents the developing importance of harmony as the underpinnings of polyphony. Harmony is the end result of counterpoint, and figured bass is a visual representation of those harmonies commonly employed in musical performance. With figured bass, numbers, accidentals or symbols were placed above the bassline that was read by keyboard instrument players such as harpsichord players or pipe organists to indicate what intervals are to be played above each bass note. Composers began concerning themselves with harmonic progressions to create dissonance (it was used in the dominant seventh chord and the diminished chord). An interest in harmony had also existed among certain composers in the Renaissance, but the use of harmony directed towards tonality (a focus on a musical key that becomes the "home note" of a piece), rather than modality, marks the shift in period.

By incorporating these new aspects of composition, Claudio Monteverdi furthered the transition from the Renaissance style of music to that of the Baroque period. He developed two individual styles of composition—the heritage of Renaissance polyphony (prima pratica) and the new basso continuo technique of the Baroque (seconda pratica). With basso continuo, a small group of musicians would play the bassline and the chords which formed the accompaniment for a melody. The basso continuo group would typically use one or more keyboard players and a lute player who would play the bassline and improvise the chords and several bass instruments (e.g., bass viola, cello, double bass) which would play the bassline.

With the writing of the operas L'Orfeo and L'incoronazione di Poppea among others, Monteverdi brought considerable attention to this new genre. Here's the former, timestamped to the prologue:  
[Monteverdi : L'Orfeo (Les Arts Florissants / Paul Agnew / Cyril Auvity /Léa Desandre...)](https://youtu.be/pYUGVnfwDcE?t=201)  
	 

This Venetian style was taken handily to Germany by Heinrich Schütz, who is also credited with continuing its evolution from the Renaissance into the Early Baroque. Schütz had a diverse style that also evolved into the subsequent period. The most important German composer before Johann Sebastian Bach.  
[Heinrich Schutz: Schwanengesang \- Hilliard Ensemble](https://youtu.be/neSRx-biZbs)  
['Heinrich Schütz: Cantiones sacrae' by Magnificat](https://youtu.be/1RSosEIoC3w)
