---
layout: post
title: "779:"
date: 2023-02-04
---

Late Baroque (1680 to 1750\)

The work of George Frideric Handel, Johann Sebastian Bach, their contemporaries and others advanced the Baroque era to its climax.

George Frideric Handel strongly influenced both by the middle-German polyphonic choral tradition and by composers of the Italian Baroque. In turn, Handel's music forms one of the peaks of the "high baroque" style, bringing Italian opera to its highest development, creating the genres of English oratorio and organ concerto, and introducing a new style into English church music.  
[Handel Edition Vol.1](https://youtu.be/fRonvLhe0Yg)  
[Handel: The best choral works PART 4](https://youtu.be/8CAWD3-m07Q)

Another two of the best and most well-known late Baroque composers were Jean-Philippe Rameau (French), and Antonio Vivaldi (Italian).

Jean-Philippe Rameau replaced Jean-Baptiste Lully as the dominant composer of French opera and is also is considered the leading French composer of his time for the harpsichord. He wrote my favorite baroque piece, Les Cyclops (also on rec 390.5, three times lol).  
[Rameau: Complete Works for Harpsichord (Full Album)](https://youtu.be/gzJ4UEaMLd0?t=7516)

Vivaldi consolidated the emerging concerto form into a widely accepted and followed idiom, which was paramount in the development of Johann Sebastian Bach's instrumental music. This piece from rec 569 remains my favorite work and performance of Vivaldi.  
[Vivaldi : il Giustino, "Vedrò con mio diletto" par Jakub Józef Orliński (contre-ténor)](https://youtu.be/yF4YXv6ZIuE)

Johann Sebastian Bach was a German composer and musician of the late Baroque period. He is known for his orchestral music such as the Brandenburg Concertos; instrumental compositions such as the Cello Suites; keyboard works such as the Goldberg Variations and The Well-Tempered Clavier; organ works such as the Schubler Chorales and the Toccata and Fugue in D minor; and vocal music such as the St Matthew Passion and the Mass in B minor. Since the 19th-century Bach revival he has been generally regarded as one of the greatest composers in the history of Western music, by many he is considered the best composer ever (voted as the Greatest Composer of All Time by 174 of the world's leading composers for BBC Music Magazine).  
[Lang Lang – Bach: The Well-Tempered Clavier: Book 1, 1.Prelude C Major, BWV 846](https://youtu.be/gVah1cr3pU0)  
[Bach \- Concerto for two violins in D minor BWV 1043 \- Sato and Deans | Netherlands Bach Society](https://youtu.be/ILKJcsET-NM?t=7)

During the baroque era, the term "cantata" generally retained its original Italian usage to describe a secular vocal piece of extended length, often in different sections, and usually Italianate in style. At the same time, vocal pieces of similar scope, often with several singers, and various instruments, were in great demand for the services of the Lutheran church.

Here's one of Bach's cantatas, of which almost 200 survive:  
[Bach \- Cantata Herz und Mund und Tat und Leben BWV 147 \- Creed | Netherlands Bach Society](https://youtu.be/h97JE4--p84?t=7)

The editors of the Bach Gesellschaft adopted "sacred cantata" as a convenient catchall for most of Bach's liturgical pieces. The term was then retroactively applied by Philipp Spitta to refer to comparable works by composers from Heinrich Schütz onwards. Many secular cantatas were composed for events in the nobility. They were so similar in form to the sacred ones that many of them were parodied (in parts or completely) to sacred cantatas, for example in Bach's Christmas Oratorio (an Oratorio is a large musical composition for orchestra, choir, and soloists (no theatre element)).

[Bach: Christmas Oratorio BWV 248, part 1/2](https://youtu.be/zpaNo4mWRBE?t=57)

Classical (c. 1750-c. 1830\)

Though the term "classical music" includes all Western art music from the Medieval era to the 2000s, the Classical Era was the period of Western art music from the 1750s to the early 1820s—the era of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Joseph Haydn, and Ludwig van Beethoven.

Europe began to move toward a new style in architecture, literature, and the arts, generally known as Neoclassicism. This style sought to emulate the ideals of Classical antiquity, especially those of Classical Greece.

Due to development of ideas in "natural philosophy" (In particular, Newton's physics taken as a paradigm: structures should be well-founded in axioms and be both well-articulated and orderly) Classical music used formality and emphasis on order and hierarchy, and a "clearer", "cleaner" style that used clearer divisions between parts (notably a clear, single melody accompanied by chords), brighter contrasts and "tone colors". In contrast with the richly layered music of the Baroque era, Classical music moved towards simplicity rather than complexity. In addition, the typical size of orchestras began to increase (and standardize), giving orchestras a more powerful sound.

The Classical era was also when the piano became the predominant keyboard instrument. Chamber music ensembles grew in size. Orchestras no longer required a harpsichord, and were often led by the lead violinist. The symphony came into its own as a musical form, and the concerto was developed as a vehicle for displays of virtuoso playing skill.

Classical era musicians continued to use many instruments from the Baroque era, such as the cello, trombone, timpani, fortepiano, and organ. While some Baroque instruments fell into disuse (e.g., the theorbo and rackett), many Baroque instruments were changed into the versions that are still in use today, such as the Baroque violin, the Baroque oboe, and the Baroque trumpet.
