---
layout: post
title: "772:"
date: 2023-01-28
---

Ars nova

Ars nova (new art) is a Medieval Classical Music period (around 1310-1380) succeeding Ars antiqua (ancient art). The name of the genre was created by composers who were comparing their new way of writing music to what had been created by the few generations preceding them.

At the time of ars antiqua, the Roman Catholic Church was trying to create a new Roman Empire by imposing a unique language, religion, way of living and singing in their territory. To reach that aim, the Church forced composers to use plainsong (or Gregorian Chant) all the time in sacred music to avoid new ideas in the circles of power (political and religious) and prevent the birth of an individualism. The other obligation in music was to use only ternary beats because the Church believed in the Trinity. To avoid those constraints, Pérotin slowed down plainsong to be unrecognizable (but no priest could say it wasn't there on the manuscript) and to create a beat that was complex enough to present binary and ternary beats at the same time. These inventions would slowly but surely lead to ars nova

Ars nova can be recognized by the way it mixes the sacred with the secular (texts and/or melodies), a subject of controversy in the Roman Catholic Church. New ideas in musical notation enabled composers to develop more complex rhythmic structures and also to cut the rhythm of a melody (or color) by following a repeated rhythmic sequence (talea) that has nothing in common with the melody. This technique, called isorhythm, creates surprising results when the color, used in different parts of a polyphony, follows a talea at different time: the juxtaposition of the different parts creates notes with unpredictable pitches and durations. The listener doesn't easily recognize the original melody and has the feeling of constantly swinging from chaos to harmony.

[Guillaume de Machaut \- La Messe de Nostre Dame](https://youtu.be/mvIEA2dBKGA)  
[The Mirror Of Narcissus \- Songs By Guillaume de Machaut (1300-1377)](https://youtu.be/aVmbKzVZiHc?t=1513)
