---
layout: post
title: "759:"
date: 2023-01-15
---

Ghazal

Tracing its origins back to qasidah, an ancient form of Arabic ode, the ghazal is a form of musical poetry that originated in Arabia (specifically in Hijaz and Iraq) in the 7th century. Ghazals are much briefer in length and less beholden to the strict structures of qasidahs and deal with themes including love, lust, loss, religion, and mysticism.

Ghazals were introduced to the Indian subcontinent via Persia in the 12th century, where they went through further radical changes in their structure and delivery, eventually culminating in the development of the widely popular Urdu ghazal. Where Persian and Afghan styles of ghazals are based on Islamic Modal Music, Indian versions tend to be much freer and are traditionally (but not always) based on ragas and sung in classical forms such as Khyal in Urdu and Bengali and set to the beats of Thumri.

Ghazals have historically and contemporaneously been performed in Central Asia, Turkey, the Caucasus, and parts of Europe as well. While originating in Arabia and popular in Persia, ghazals are one of the major forms of music in South Asia, especially in Pakistan, North India, Bengal, and Bangladesh. They are widely popular among all stratifications of society and are often performed live and on mass media such as radio, TV, and the internet. While more purist forms are performed by classical musicians, ghazals have also been incorporated into popular forms of music such as Bollywood Filmi soundtracks and Urdu and Hindi Pop, Rock, and Electronic music, resulting in the emergence of Pop Ghazals in the 1970s.

There's a lot of directions to go with this one. I'll talk more about both Ghazal and Pop Ghazal later. For now, from Arooj Aftab's 2021 Ghazal Chamber Folk album Vulture Prince:  
[Arooj Aftab \- Mohabbat](https://youtu.be/iRZ98HX1MO8)

Beautiful arrangements, beautiful vocals.
