---
layout: post
title: "754:"
date: 2023-01-10
---

Persian Classical Music (or Iranian Traditional Music)

Persian classical music is the traditional art music of the Persian civilization. While it is mostly practiced in Persia (Iran), there are also closely related forms of Classical Music in territories historically being Persian domain \- modern Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Though Persian classical music influenced and was influenced by Arabic, Turkish, Byzantine and Indian classical musics, it is nevertheless an independent development. It has a deep mutual relation with poetry \- the rhythms and melodic patterns of poems and tunes are often interconnected. Tunes are often based on poems, but it is not uncommon to model a new poem upon the melody and rhythm of an existing tune. Sufism is another profound influence on Persian classical music.

Persian classical music is modal and monophonic, makes use of microtones and is typically performed by small ensembles. Such ensembles are usually led by a vocalist; key instruments are: long-necked lutes (tar, setar, tanbur, dotar), spike-fiddle (kamencheh), drums (tombak, daf), end-blown flute (ney) and hammered dulcimer (santur).

There are six forms of Persian classical music: four instrumental (pishdaramad, daramad, cheharmezrab, and reng) and two vocal (tasnif and avaz). A typical performance would include all those forms in a sequence, together forming a kind of "suite". While compositional basis in the form of tunes and modes does exist, Persian classical music is always at least partially improvised.

Persian classical music probably started forming in the Sassanid Era (6th century), but as it lacked musical notation at the time, there is no way of checking its relation to modern forms. Until the 1900s, Persian classical music was almost exclusively within the purview of the royal courts and small, wealthy audiences. During the 20th century, it saw more widespread performance and increased freedom of artistic expression. This was stopped by the Iranian Revolution of 1979, since which Persian classical music is at times condemned, at other times encouraged and most of the time just barely tolerated.

From the 1999 album Moon Rise Over the Silk Road by the ensemble Ghazal.  
[Kayhan Kalhor ❤ Ghazal ❤ Moon Rise Over the Silk Road](https://youtu.be/bVo8S4rblcQ)

The following recs are on the meta-genre that covers the diverse forms of Classical Music from South Asia, South Asian Classical Music

With roots in ancient Vedic literature, South Asian classical music developed over the centuries, crystallizing in its modern form in the 12th and 13th centuries based on medieval Sanskrit musicology texts. These texts form the foundations of the two main forms of South Asian classical music: Hindustani Classical Music and Carnatic Classical Music.

South Asian classical music revolves around two foundations: the raga and the tala. Ragas (literally: "colouring") are the melodic framework inside which musicians perform. Each raga has defined melodic structures, motifs, and movements, and musicians are free to improvise within them. Although hundreds of ragas have been developed, a smaller number are the most common in the classical tradition. Talas (literally: "clap") provide the musical meter \- the beat around which musical time is measured. The tala can be provided by hand claps, striking the hand against an object, or via percussion instruments. While talas provide the musical meter, they do not necessarily have to provide a consistent beat and can change in various parts within a raga or composition.

The two main styles fully diverged around the 16th and 17th centuries.

Classical music in South Asia flourished under the patronage of medieval Mughal and Maratha emperors, and later the separate princely states under British rule. Since the independence of India and subsequent partition, classical music remains extremely popular in the subcontinent, with a strong continued tradition of compositions and performances that have influenced modern South Asian Pop, Rock, and Filmi music as well as Western music and Southeast Asian Music. Indian classical music has also, throughout its history, played a large part in influencing broader South and Southeast Asian cultures and continues to do so in South Asia.
