---
layout: post
title: "764:"
date: 2023-01-20
---

Overtone singing – also known as overtone chanting, harmonic singing, polyphonic overtone singing, and diphonic singing – is a set of singing techniques in which the vocalist manipulates the resonances of the vocal tract, in order to arouse the perception of additional, separate notes beyond the fundamental frequency being produced.

From a fundamental pitch, made by the human voice, the belonging harmonic overtones can be selectively amplified by changing the vocal tract, i.e. the dimensions and shape of the resonant cavities of the mouth and the pharynx. This resonant tuning allows singers to create more than one pitch at the same time (the fundamental and one or more selected overtones), while usually generating a single fundamental frequency with their vocal folds.

There are several styles of overtone singing found around the world.

Anna-Maria Hefele is a German overtone singer.

Rosary Sonata No. 1 by Ensemble Supersonus from 2014\.  
[Rosary Sonata 1 \- SUPERSONUS](https://youtu.be/ysSLfwEk5l4)  
I love a modern take on a baroque classic, especially when it's done this well and uniquely.

Her voice comes in at around 1:06.

Here's a 2022 performance, ANDESANA, in which the polyphonic aspect is more obvious.  
[Andesana | Anna-Maria Hefele | polyphonic overtone singing](https://youtu.be/i9-pwR6qdhE)

It's fairly easy to fall into an overtone singing rabbithole on Youtube. I'll revisit some of the other styles later.
