---
layout: post
title: "1304:"
date: 2024-07-13
---

Soul jazz is a subgenre of Jazz that appeared during the 1950s, when Gospel, Rhythm & Blues and later Soul started to influence the style of prolific jazz musicians such as Horace Silver, whose composition "The Preacher" quickly became a staple of the genre. The characteristic "groove" of soul jazz became especially popular during the late 1950 and the early 1960s, when Hard Bop was becoming the leading form of jazz. Hence, both genres developed in close association with each other to the extent that a great deal of soul jazz fell within the scope of hard bop.

During the first half of the 1950s, R&B-influenced jazz emerged as an alternative to both Cool Jazz and Bebop. The appearance of soul jazz represented the fusion of different Afro-American musics as a response to the "white" sound of West Coast jazz; all of this during the early days of the Civil Rights Movement. Soul jazz hits in this era include Illinois Jacquet's "Port of Rico" and Jimmy Forrest's "Night Train". When hard bop evolved out of bebop in the mid-1950s, many ensembles fully embraced soul jazz, giving rise to a movement that would last until the late 1960s. Amongst the first to explore the combination of hard bop and soul jazz were a first generation of tenor saxophonists with a swing and bebop background as well as notable r&b influences.  Besides the tenor saxophone, the quintessential soul jazz instrument was the Hammond B-3 electric organ. The first and most crucial organist in the history of soul jazz was Jimmy Smith. His lead was followed by other important figures such as Johnny Hammond, Baby Face Willette, Shirley Scott, Richard "Groove" Holmes and Jack McDuff. The popular organ trio configuration usually included guitarists such as Grant Green, Kenny Burrell and Pat Martino.

There's a lot of great and interesting stuff in the genre, so I'm sure I'll revisit it later. For now, here's the first track on a 1970 album, Red Clay, by Freddie Hubbard 
https://youtu.be/wA1ZelIbUfI

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wA1ZelIbUfI
Freddie Hubbard - Red Clay (Complete)
''Copyright Disclaimer Under Section 107 of the Copyright Act 1976, allowance is made for fair use for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching, scholarship, and research. Fair use is a use permitted by copyright statute that might otherwise be infringing. Non-profit, educational or personal use tips the balance in favor of ...
