---
layout: post
title: "1251:"
date: 2024-05-21
---

Funk carioca is a form of Brazilian Music that first emerged in the 1980s. Born in Rio de Janeiro, the style was named after the people of Rio, who are known as cariocas in Brazil. Funk carioca remained mostly limited to the Rio scene throughout the 1990s, but it would receive national popularity and spread to other regions during the 2000s, leading to a diversification of the genre's sound and to the development of many competing scenes, which now represent the fuller scale of a national genre known as simply "funk" or Funk brasileiro. The main scene that emerged to rival Rio would be that of São Paulo, which became a leading force in funk during the 2010s. Funk carioca's sound has shifted and morphed throughout the decades.

First emerging as a Brazilian take on Miami Bass and Electro productions, funk carioca initially grew as a homemade take on American 1980s Hip Hop trends, gradually suiting the production to fit the MCing styles that developed Rio de Janeiro. The style became more distinct in the 1990s with the added influence of local styles and instruments, like the implementation of the Tamborzão beat, incorporating Afro-Brazilian drums like the atabaque. More complex rhythms soon found their place, leading and the earlier Miami bass and electro elements would become absent from most funk production by the mid-2000s. Raw, simplistic approaches to production, including beats made from beatboxing loops, or more synthetic, and minimal, electronically-produced styles, were espoused by artists as well.

Here's FBC & VHOOR's 2021 album Baile 
https://youtu.be/wCyY8OXOHm0

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wCyY8OXOHm0
FBC & VHOOR - BAILE (Full Album)
Ouça no seu aplicativo preferido: 
https://onerpm.link/BAILE

00:01 - Vem pro BAILE
03:20 - Quando o DJ toca
06:15 - Rap da UFFÉ
08:28 - Melô do Vacilão
11:48 - Se Tá Solteira 
13:44 - Eu Sou o Crime
16:08 - Delírios
18:48 - Não dá pra Explicar
22:05 - Polícia Covarde
24:35 - De Kenner

Produção Musical: VHOOR & FBC
Vozes: FBC, VHOOR, Mac Júlia,...
