---
layout: post
title: "1454:"
date: 2024-12-10
---

Hands up emerged in Germany in the late 1990s and early 2000s as a melodic, punchy, and upbeat form of Electronic Dance Music, typically around 140 BPM. Rooted in Trance, it draws influence from Euro-Trance, Eurodance, and to a lesser extent, NRG and UK Hard House, with melodies often inspired by German Happy Hardcore. The genre is characterized by prominent supersaw leads, dance-pop hooks, sidechained basslines, and powerful drums, often following a pop-like verse-chorus structure. Synth melodies, often simple and catchy, frequently act as the chorus, with vocals typically reserved for verses. Female or pitched-up male vocals are common, delivering sentimental, emotional lyrics that contrast with vocal trance's more subdued tones.

Hands up gained popularity in the 2000s despite its gradual disappearance from mainstream radio, with German artists like Rob Mayth, Cascada, and Special D playing significant roles in its development. Over time, the genre incorporated elements from UK Hardcore, Jumpstyle, and Hardstyle, influencing and being influenced by these styles. In underground scenes, hands up has merged with trends like Nightcore, Cloud Rap-inspired vocals, and Chillwave atmospheres, creating experimental blends. Though no longer mainstream, it retains a global producer and listener base, with many viewing it as a more accessible alternative to the harsher sounds of Hardstyle, while its influence continues to shape Euphoric Hardstyle and other subgenres.

Here's Cascada's 2009 single Evacuate the Dancefloor
https://youtu.be/A68j28KQaik

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A68j28KQaik
Cascada - Evacuate The Dancefloor (Official Music Video)
Subscribe to Cloud 9 Dance → http://bitly.com/Subscribe_C9D

Cascada - Evacuate The Dancefloor BUY IT http://itunes.apple.com/nl/album/evacuate-the-dancefloor/id325393327
"Evacuate the Dancefloor" became Cascada's first UK number one single in 2009. So far the group has sold an estimated 14 million copies of their three albums, and 36 million si...


Recently I've been revisiting a podcast I used to be a big fan of, Welcome to Nightvale. Here are a few neat tracks used in the last 10 episodes I listened to.
