---
layout: post
title: "1265:"
date: 2024-06-04
---

Classical crossover is a genre that developed as a reaction to a Western Classical Music's relative lack of popularity within mainstream audiences. It aims to take specific western classical conventions and apply them into a straightforward Pop context to attract outside audiences. Crossover appeal can be achieved in different ways, including classical singers collaborating with pop singers or applying classical instrumentation and techniques onto pop music and vice versa. 

Commonly, classical crossover tracks include violin or cello arrangements, operatic vocal tracks, and orchestras supporting vocalists. Most examples are lush, slow-paced, and polished, with many artists releasing covers of popular songs, especially U.S. Billboard Top 40 hits. Marketing strategies often focus on holiday releases, attractive looks, age demographics, and mainstream media appearances.

The genre gained popularity after Luciano Pavarotti's performance of "Nessun Dorma" at the 1990 FIFA World Cup, which helped acts like Andrea Bocelli and Sarah Brightman popularize "operatic pop" (popera). The rise of streaming services like YouTube in the 2010s further boosted the genre, with acts like The Piano Guys, 2Cellos, and Lindsey Stirling broadening its sound.

Despite criticism for being a diluted form of classical music, many fans and artists see classical crossover as an opportunity to explore new sounds and increase interest in classical music.

Here's 新世紀への運河 (Shinseiki e no Unga), a 1988 album by ゲルニカ [Guernica]
https://youtu.be/0JbQoj7zvXw

High-energy, grandiose theatricality. 

The vocals are by Jun Togawa who I talked about on rec 1119. As always, she shows a crazy diverse range in the various voices she does, to the point where I initially thought it was different singers.

It does sound as if Susumu Hirasawa went all-in on orchestration and didn't pay attention to electronics. It makes sense that the two are friends.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0JbQoj7zvXw
GUERNICA - 新世紀への運河 (FULL ALBUM)
0:00 - 1. 磁力ビギン

1:54 - 2. 集団農場の秋

3:35 - 3. 水晶宮

6:25 - 4. 二百十日

9:50 - 5. 少年の一番の友

12:25 -6. クラウド９

14:49 -7. パノラマ・アワー

17:45 -8. 輪転機

20:23 -9. 交通賛歌

22:03 -10. 電力組曲 a:ダムの唄

23:57 -11. 電力組曲 b:電力の道筋

24:45 -12. 電力組曲 c:電化の暮らし

26:40 -13. 髑髏の円舞曲

29:18 -14. 絶海


I haven't had a chance to read the lyrics yet, but they seem interesting.

For instance, the first track is an orchestral biguine about magnets. Highlights of the album supposedly include:

• aforementioned biguine about magnetic attraction (and not a metaphor for love or something);
• a tone poem about life in a Soviet agricultural cooperative;
• big-band jazz about the life of a newspaper rotary press; and,
• a three-part series extolling the virtues of electricity.
