---
layout: post
title: "1257:"
date: 2024-05-27
---

Emerging in London in the early 2000s, grime developed from UK Garage, especially 2-Step, alongside other British Electronic Dance Music genres like Drum and Bass and Jungle. Influenced by Jamaican Dancehall and American Hip Hop, grime is characterized by fast-paced, syncopated, and highly rhythmic beats around 140 BPM, often aggressive and raw. The sound intertwines with grime MCs' vocal style, featuring dark, rapid beats for lyrical delivery, though later developments saw a significant focus on instrumental tracks. Grime lyrics often address urban life, crime, social injustice, braggadocio, and rivalries between MCs.

In the early 2000s, Wiley's "Eskibeat" and Jon E Cash's "Sub-Low" marked significant developments in grime. MCs like Dizzee Rascal, Kano, Skepta, and Lethal Bizzle released influential projects, with Dizzee's "Boy in da Corner" achieving major recognition. Platforms like Grimetapes.com, radio shows, and independent DVDs played crucial roles in promoting new artists. Throughout the decade, grime experienced relative popularity, even facing mainstream media backlash. Independent developments saw grime crossing over with genres like Contemporary R&B, Electropop, and Pop Rap, as well as merging with Dubstep in Purple Sound. Grime also influenced the dubstep and UK Funky scenes.

Despite a decline in popularity in the late 2000s and early 2010s, grime continued evolving. It spawned derivatives like the experimental, instrumental Weightless genre and UK Drill, which combined Drill production with grime influences. In the mid-2010s, new artists like AJ Tracey, Stormzy, and Lady Leshurr gained success, alongside veterans such as Skepta and JME. Grime producers began incorporating Trap influences, and the genre's impact extended to the 2010s UK Afrobeats, Afroswing, and UK Dancehall scenes.

Here are a couple tracks from Boy in da Corner, a 2003 album by Dizzee Rascal 
https://youtu.be/r7m9zZLy-1U
https://youtu.be/0pnJPX60vXA

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r7m9zZLy-1U
Fix Up, Look Sharp

Fix Up, Look Sharp · Dizzee Rascal

Boy In Da Corner



Associated  Performer, Producer, Programmer: Dylan Mills
Engineer: Mike Marsh
Music  Publisher: Spirit One Music
Music  Publisher: Notting Hill Music (UK)
Music  Publisher: CMRRA
Music  Publi...

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0pnJPX60vXA
Dizzee Rascal - Jus A Rascal
"Jus A Rascal" from the Dizzee Rascal album "Boy In Da Corner"
