---
layout: post
title: "1242:"
date: 2024-05-12
---

Epic collage is a term coined by musicologist Adam Harper to describe the digital collage-like musical form of prominent producer Elysia Crampton and her affiliates through NON Worldwide. Despite utilizing the thematic elements of Deconstructed Club as well as adopting its abrasive sonic palette through its direct concurrence with contemporary Post-Industrial music, epic collages are not necessarily beat-driven or club-oriented and favour a more sprawling cinematic approach which may more accurately resemble genres such as Ambient, Glitch, Noise, New Age, Cinematic Classical, Nature Recordings, or Progressive Electronic.

An epic collage may draw upon elements of Spoken Word, Poetry, or Radio Drama which is most frequently exhibited through the use of text-to-speech transcription, clips of spoken ASMR, and samples from various pop media. Epic collage artists are also commonly defined by their ability to decontextualize recognizable samples and provide them with a seemingly conflicting sonic backdrop which thusly results in a Mashup (or mess-up) that strives to be greater than the sum of its parts, oftentimes conveying gravitas as opposed to the levitas of a more conventional mashup (though perhaps a blurring of the lines between the two).

Here's DJ E, a 2023 album by Chuquimamani-Condori. It also belongs to the Latin Electronic (or Latintronica) movement.
https://youtu.be/INo81k3qTgk
Latin Electronic combines Electronic music with Latin American music influences that started at the end of the 1990s. Specific scenes like Digital Cumbia and Nortec developed around Buenos Aires and Tijuana, respectively, but this also encompasses a wider array of genre mixtures. 

The album is dense but ethereal. Some of the tracks are noisier than others. It's interesting; cluttered and blended though it is, it's still got a unique, cohesive sound that allows individual samples to shine through. I'm not familiar with Andean pop but still found the sampling enjoyable.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=INo81k3qTgk
Chuquimamani-Condori - DJ E (2023)
from E Crampton: 
"it was made w no label support, no agencies, no management, no distributors, no mastering. this is the sound of our water ceremonies, the 40 bands playing their melodies at once to recreate the cacophony of the first aurora & the call of the morning star venus. If you ever cared for me, if I ever loved you, if I ever did you w...
