---
layout: post
title: "1321:"
date: 2024-07-30
---

Diamond Jubilee is a 2024 album by Cindy Lee. Cindy Lee is the drag queen hypnagogic pop project of Canadian musician Patrick Flegel, former guitarist and lead singer of Women.
https://youtu.be/_LJi5na897Y

The album is a little hard to categorize because it takes from so many genres, but Hypnagogic Pop, Psychedelic Pop and Indie Rock with Brill Building influence all fit.

It's groovy and intentionally nostalgic with a lo-fi but atmospheric quality. Reminiscent of the Wall of Sound technique pioneered in the 60s.

According to the review aggregator Metacritic, Diamond Jubilee received "universal acclaim" based on a weighted average score of 95 out of 100 from 4 critic scores. Andy Cush of Pitchfork gave the album a 9.1/10 review, calling it "an essential trove of music" where "each song is like a foggy transmission from a rock 'n' roll netherworld with its own ghostly canon of beloved hits". It was the highest rating awarded by the website to a new album since Fiona Apple's 2020 album Fetch the Bolt Cutters.

I don't think the album is a consistently high-quality the whole way through; some of the tracaks drag on on a little or are just a bit boring, but it's worth a listen. There's a lot of creativity throughout the whole 2 hour run time.

Abrupt ending

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_LJi5na897Y
Cindy Lee - Diamond Jubilee (2024) Full Album HQ
Download/pay for this album: www.geocities.ws/ccqsk

CD1
I DIAMOND JUBILEE
II GLITZ
III BABY BLUE * # ^&
IV DREAMS OF YOU
V ALL I WANT IS YOU
VI DALLAS
VII OLIVE DRAB
VIII ALWAYS DREAMING ^
IX WILD ONE #
X FLESH AND BLOOD ^
XI LE MACHINISTE FANTOME
XII KINGDOM COME
XIII DEMON BITCH $
XIV I HAVE MY DOUBTS
XV TIL POLARITYS END $
XVI REALISTIK HEAV...
