---
layout: post
title: "1375:"
date: 2024-09-22
---

Rock urbano español, locally known simply as "rock urbano", is a scene originating in Spain from the mid to late 1970s when the Spanish language gained dominance in the local rock scene and, moreso, the end of the Francoist dictatorship which now allowed previously censored social issues including protest, marginal living and taboo lyrics being covered.

Back in the 1960s, there was a general disagreement among Spanish rock acts with the language of performance, which commonly alternated between English and Spanish lyrics. Most of the underground Spanish rock bands from the early 1970s performed mainly in English (aside from some notable regional scenes that opted for other Iberian languages such as Catalan, Basque or Galician). This fact led to most of the Psychedelic Rock bands and some of the earliest Hard Rock references of the country to remain as English-language acts. Some of the Spanish-language hard rock pioneers failed in gaining popularity while others would gradually switch from English to Spanish throughout the decade.

The earliest rock urbano acts were formed at the eve of the end of the country dictatorship (and during the transition to democracy) being mostly Progressive Rock and/or hard rock efforts such as Asfalto, Ñu, Topo, Coz or Leño. Along with other scenes that preferred using Spanish as happened with Rock andaluz, they all were referred as "El rollo"; specially the releases published by Chapa Discos at late 1970s (that were really common to rock urbano).

Extremoduro was a Spanish hard rock band from Plasencia, Extremadura. They were active from 1987 to 2019. The band was led by Roberto Iniesta, also known as "Robe", who is often referred as "El rey de Extremadura" (lit. 'the king of Extremadura'). 

Here's their 2008 Rock urbano español album La ley innata 
https://youtu.be/e4Qm4L6pKI4

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e4Qm4L6pKI4
Extremoduro - La ley innata (completo, letra)
Álbum de Extremoduro La ley innata (2008) con letra incluida
MAYÉUTICA CON LETRA: https://youtu.be/i-RmxyLWiL8
LA LEY INNATA + MAYÉUTICA CON LETRA: https://youtu.be/VhaE4k5FYB4
0:00 1. Dulce introducción al caos
7:42 2. Primer movimiento: el sueño
13:45 3. Segundo movimiento: lo de fuera
25:27 4. Tercer movimiento: lo de dentro
33:06 5. Cuarto m...
