---
layout: post
title: "1250:"
date: 2024-05-20
---

Funk proibidão, translated as "prohibited funk", is a style of Funk carioca that developed in the favelas of Rio de Janeiro in the 1990s, bearing resemblance to Gangsta Rap. Its development came as gangs began sponsoring funk MCs to promote their gang, target other gangs, or eulogize fallen gang members with their lyrics. Musically, the style is known for its heavy, raw, distorted production and widespread use of gunshot sound effects as percussion. In addition, lyrics are also often in call-and-response format.

The name "proibidão" comes from the Brazilian government's prohibition of music with violent or pro-crime lyrics from radio play, making most proibidão songs illegal to broadcast through radio. Because of this, proibidão is most commonly performed at gang-sponsored dances and parties called bailes. Due to the gangs' exclusive and territorial nature, MCs associated with each gang tend to develop their own unique sound that becomes associated with that gang.

Until the early 2000s, proibidão was relatively underground, as the radio ban limited the spread and popularity of the genre. However, as access to the internet has increased, proibidão MCs have taken to online platforms to share their music, allowing the genre to become more widespread and increase in popularity. Despite this, the genre remains fairly unknown outside of Brazilian favelas. 

Here's a track from MC Carol's 2021 album Borogodó 
https://youtu.be/T5zRA61Xz8c

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T5zRA61Xz8c
MC Carol - MULHER DO BOROGODÓ (prod. Goes) [ Clipe Oficial ]
Vídeo Oficial de "MULHER DO BOROGODÓ" de MC Carol

Ouça o álbum "BOROGODÓ" nas plataformas digitais: https://links.altafonte.com/borogodo

Ficha Técnica: 

EQUIPE MC CAROL
Direção Executiva: Ana Paula Paulino e Isaura Paulino
Comunicação e Marketing: Ana Paula Paulino e Douglas de Fátima
Design: Douglas de Fátima
Assessoria de Imprensa: Build Up...
