---
layout: post
title: "1218:"
date: 2024-04-18
---

Yaraví 

Yaraví is a traditional folk genre developed in Peruvian criollo-mestizo society in the late colonial era, most likely in the Cuzco area. Usually in 6/8 meter (although Bolivian yaravís often are in 2/4 or 4/4), it is characterized by recurring themes of sadness and unrequited love.

Bolivian indigenist writers often consider the yaraví to be derived from a pre-Columbian genre, the Harawi. Peruvian scholars, though, have discredited this scenario. In any case, by the mid-1800s Peru’s yaraví tradition had spread not only to Bolivia but also to Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, and Uruguay.

The yaraví entered the repertoire of Bolivian criollo-mestizo musicians in the 19th century, with the serenade representing a key performance context in urban La Paz. Befitting this social function, and in accordance with the yaraví's alternate name of triste (“sad”), musicians traditionally perform the genre at a languid tempo, while the texts they interpret typically convey sorrowful emotions. 

Here's a performance of a song from A vuestros pies madre, a 1970 album by Los Jairas
https://youtu.be/0UrAf8cDGOs

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0UrAf8cDGOs
A Vuestros Pies Madre
Didier Bégon / Yann Béréhouc / Pascal Froissart / Roger Guédon / Pascual H
Chipaya 2009 
Images F. Garcia Compagnie Numérique
http://flavors.me/chipayaensemble
http://yannberehouc.com/
http://vimeo.com/cnproject


Zamacueca is a traditional genre and dance that originated in the Black community of 19th century coastal Peru. It is a courtship dance in which partners flirted with each other while surrounded by a crowd of onlookers who sang, played instruments, clapped, and shouted words of encouragement. Zamacueca is sung in the minor mode and musically accompanied by a varying combination of guitar, vihuela, harp and cajón.

The dance gained a great deal of popularity during the early nineteenth century, thereafter developing a number of variants that were practiced by Criollo-Mestizo populations not only in Peru but also other parts of Latin America. Throughout the Spanish American wars of independence, as each republic broke off and formed its own identity, these adaptations were given status of national dance and changed the dance’s name over time (such as Zamba in Argentina, Cueca in Bolivia and Chile, and Marinera in Peru). 
There are several discrepancies about cueca origins, but is believed to be derived from the Peruvian zamacueca. Zamacueca was developed during the early 19th century, its main influences are probably Spanish fandango and jota, although it also bears similarities with Spanish-Arabic zambra and African, criollo and Amerindian dances. Zamacueca evolved in Chile into "chilena", a faster and more lively style of dance and music, which was eventually renamed as cueca (in Peru was renamed as Marinera, with a much slower tempo).


I'll talk about the other genres later. For now I'll just talk about Bolivian Cueca.
