---
layout: post
title: "1400:"
date: 2024-10-17
---

Heartland Rock

Heartland rock is a form of Rock music that rose to prominence in the United States during the mid-1970s.

Bruce Springsteen is often seen as the main progenitor of the style. On his first several studio recordings, Springsteen took influence from the Folk Rock sounds of Bob Dylan, the Rhythm & Blues stylings of Sam Cooke, and the aesthetics of 1950s-60s Rock & Roll artists such as Chuck Berry. During the recording sessions of his third album, Born to Run, Springsteen took massive inspiration from the dense Brill Building sounds established by Phil Spector's Wall of Sound, defining the grandiose and bombastic sounds often associated with the genre. Other musical styles, such as Roots Rock and Garage Rock, were also fundamental to the genre's development. Altogether, heartland rock was characterized by simplistic, straightforward melodic arrangements, soaring guitar textures, lush production, and layered percussion. Some acts incorporated horns and keyboards into their instrumental palettes; as the years progressed, synthesizers became much more commonly used.

Heartland rock often emphasizes social or communal lyrical themes, including economic hardship, drugs, and crime. This gave the genre a much wider working-class appeal compared to other rock styles at the time. This marked especially true in the Rust Belt and Midwestern regions of the United States, as most heartland rock acts originated from those areas, and in turn, helped coin the genre's name.

Although heartland rock did not crystallize as a distinct genre among music journalists until the 1980s, the style achieved enormous popularity during the late 1970s.

Here's a song from Bruce Springsteen's 1975 album Born to Run 
https://youtu.be/Wu4_zVxmufY

Here's a song from The Waterboys' 1985 album This Is the Sea 
https://youtu.be/VAiOjxkCS0g (can also be described as Big Music)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wu4_zVxmufY
Born to Run

Born to Run · Bruce Springsteen

Born To Run



Drums: Ernest "Boom" Carter
Saxophone: Clarence Clemons
Organ: Danny Federici
Keyboards: David Sancious
Bass: Garry Tallent
Producer: Mike Appel
Engineer: Louis Lahav
Mastering  Engineer: Greg Calbi


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VAiOjxkCS0g
The Waterboys - This Is The Sea
The Waterboys - This Is The Sea, This Is The Sea (1985)

Lyrics:

These things you keep
You'd better throw them away
You wanna turn your back
On your soulless days
Once you were tethered
And now you are free
Once you were tethered
Well now you are free
That was the river
This is the sea!

Now if you're feelin' weary
If you've been alone too long...
