---
layout: post
title: "1471:"
date: 2024-12-27
---

Drumless is a style of hip-hop, that emerged in the early 2010s, defined by minimal or absent percussion, focusing instead on looped samples. Unlike traditional hip-hop, which emphasizes heavy drum beats, this style strips down the music to its core sample without adding drum machines, basslines, or prominent kicks and snares. Any percussion present typically comes from the original sample and is often subdued or filtered.

Early influences trace back to the 1990s and 2000s, with producers like RZA occasionally using simple, looped soul samples with minimal percussion. Madlib and The Alchemist also shaped the style with their stripped-down, soulful beats. Jay Electronica’s Act 1: Eternal Sunshine (The Pledge), featuring drumless film score loops, was another key precursor.

In the 2010s, artists like Ka and Roc Marciano popularized the genre with albums like Grief Pedigree and Reloaded, characterized by unaltered loops of 1970s soul and rock paired with gritty gangsta rap lyrics. The style gained traction among 'coke-rap' artists, including those on Griselda Records, such as Westside Gunn and Boldy James. Producers like The Alchemist, V Don, and DJ Muggs further refined the sound, relying on sparse percussion. Experimental artists like Earl Sweatshirt and Navy Blue also embraced drumless beats, drawing from diverse, unconventional samples.

GUM is a 2020 experimental abstract hip-hop album by Cities Aviv. It makes use of Drumless production.
https://youtu.be/e300p3MdDSk
Lethargic, lonely, and introspective. I don't remember listening to a hip hop album that feels so sparse and empty in such a deliberate, powerful way.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e300p3MdDSk
Cities Aviv - Gum [2020]
Support the artist https://citiesaviv.bandcamp.com/

released May 22, 2020
All Tracks Produced by Cities Aviv.

I COULDN'T HELP BUT LAUGH AT THE WORLD.
AND THEN I SMILED.

PLAY LOUD
