---
layout: post
title: "1404:"
date: 2024-10-21
---

Electric Blues
 
The Blues underwent significant development when instruments like the electric guitar were amplified, especially after World War II in Chicago. This shift to amplified electric blues greatly influenced Rock & Roll and later genres like Blues Rock, Hard Rock, and Heavy Metal. The genre saw revivals, particularly in the 2000s with the Garage Rock Revival.

Amplification changed the dynamics of blues, allowing guitars, bass, and harmonicas to gain prominence over louder instruments like the piano, which had dominated clubs in the 1920s and 1940s. This led to the establishment of the guitar as the central instrument in blues, setting the stage for the "guitar hero" archetype in rock music.

By the late 1940s, electric blues became economically viable, with hits among urban audiences, such as T-Bone Walker's "Call It Stormy Monday." Walker's sophisticated guitar work distinguished Electric Texas Blues from the Chicago blues style. Muddy Waters' hit "I Can’t Be Satisfied" marked a key moment in the evolution of electric blues, maintaining the essence of traditional Country Blues while introducing amplified elements. This developed into Chicago Blues, the genre's enduring branch, with Chess Records playing a pivotal role in promoting many electric blues artists in the 1950s and 1960s.

Here's a song from John Lee Hooker's 1966 album It Serve You Right to Suffer
https://youtu.be/oQDEK8FBIek

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oQDEK8FBIek
John Lee Hooker - It Serves Me Right To Suffer (Black Journal #48, ...
John Lee Hooker performing 'It Serves Me Right To Suffer' on TV Show Black Journal in January 1970.
Footage licensed from WNET. All rights reserved.

To stay up to date with all new releases on the channel subscribe here: https://bit.ly/3bKzG8A

#JohnLeeHooker
