---
layout: post
title: "1253:"
date: 2024-05-23
---

Tamborzão is a style of Funk carioca that originated around Miami Bass samples. It was born in the late 1990s and popularized in the early 2000s in the favelas of Rio de Janeiro. Its origin occurred as a style renewal, almost 10 years after baile funk subculture became popular; following the exhaustion from the repetition of 1988's “8 Volt Mix” loop, associated and heavily sampled in the first wave of Miami bass and Electro in Brazil.

To infuse a more Brazilian sound into the beat, adding sensuality and a tropical groove to its dynamics, the characteristic sound incorporates atabaque and conga as its main elements. This involved experimenting with the Roland R-8 MK-II drum machine, which was used in 1997. Gradually, other elements and percussive sounds were added to the beat, spreading quickly among Rio's youth. This newer and popular style was later recognized as the well-known rhythm of funk carioca to outsiders, even resembling Samba aspects.

The first insertion of this beat was in a rap by the duo Tito e Xandão. Furacão 2000 Records played a significant role in fostering this new funk trend, bringing artists like Bonde do Tigrão to massive success with songs such as "Cerol na mão". "Injeção", by Deize Tigrona and produced by DJ Marlboro, is considered one of the forerunners of the style, which was later sampled by Diplo and even M.I.A. in "Bucky Done Gun", gaining first international attention for the Brazilian scene.

MCing about explicit themes with sexual connotation and using humorous lyrics are quite common, emerging concurrently with Funk proibidão and overlapping their Hip Hop background, such as Boladona by Tati Quebra Barraco. In the early 2010s the sound became oversaturated and began to decline due to the recent spread of Funk brasileiro in other regions of the country but went viral again in 2023, as a response to the hit “Tá OK”. 


Heres a track from Boladona, a 2004 album by Tati Quebra Barraco
https://youtu.be/USO_Dfu-6Yg

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=USO_Dfu-6Yg
Tati Quebra Barraco - Boladona
Boladona é uma canção da cantora Tati Quebra Barraco que está presente no seu álbum Boladona.

Sem fins lucrativos.
No copyright infringement.
