---
layout: post
title: "1211:"
date: 2024-04-11
---

Huayno 

Huayno is Andean dance music blending pre-Hispanic and Western elements, common among Andean indigenous and mestizo communities. Originating in the colonial era, it evolved as a secular couples' dance, sung in Spanish and Quechua. Instruments include flutes, trumpets, panpipes, violins, guitars, saxophones, and more.

Musically, huaynos are strophic, duple-meter songs with syncopated melodies (e.g., aabb), often ending with a faster fuga section. Variants exist: Carnavalito in NW Argentina, livelier; Chilean huayno less fast; Bolivian huayño slower. Peru's versions vary by region, like the huaynito cusqueño from Cusco.

Huayno influences other rhythms like kaluyo, Chuntunqui romántico, Taquirari, among others. In mid-20th century Lima, it gained urban popularity among highland migrants, leading to stylistic changes and dissemination through recordings and radio. While rural areas maintain its popularity, urban huayno evolves, fusing with styles like Cumbia or Rock, due to its simplicity.


Carnavalito is a style of Huayno that is mostly played in northwestern Argentina in the provinces of Jujuy, Salta, and Tucumán. Its fast and lively pace is mainly characterized by the rhythm of the bombo, which accentuates the strong beats. Guitars and charangos are played to the accompaniment of the bombo, and the accordion, the violin and different notched flutes and panpipes are used as melodic instruments. Generally, the lyrics are cheerful and sung in the regional Spanish of northwestern Argentina.

In addition to this musical tradition, carnavalito is a collective dance with line formations: circles, straight lines, serpentine lines, etc. The dancers move around the musicians or in other formations and a person with a banner or pennant adorned with ribbons in hand is in charge of directing the line. 

Here's Carnavalitos, an album by Argentino guitarist Edmundo P. Zaldivar (h) from 1955
https://youtu.be/hY9roOBLj3g

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hY9roOBLj3g
Edmundo P. Zaldivar (h) - Carnavalitos (195?) (Full Album)
Disco de Edmundo P. Zaldivar (hijo) y su conjunto. Hay aquí la versión original de la canción que se quedó muy famosa por todo el mundo: "El Humahuaqueño". Zaldivar fue, además de músico, un gran entusiasta del folklore argentino, sobretodo de la danza típica del Carnavalito. Abajo, transcribo los textos que se encuentran en la anteportada del L...
