---
layout: post
title: "1324:"
date: 2024-08-02
---

Sierreño and Corrido tumbado
 
Sierreño is a style of Norteño music that is mainly played with guitars, as opposed to the traditional bajo sexto used in norteño. It usually has no percussion and the use of accordion is also very uncommon as a melodic instrument as the guitars assume that role. Artists often use twelve-string guitars and the music features prominent guitar work accompanied with bass guitar or tuba. The style was pionereed by Miguel y Miguel in the 1990s with a more traditional Corrido and Ranchera sound but it gained popularity in Mexico with the more melodic aproach of Los Plebes del Rancho de Ariel Camacho's hit "Te metiste" in 2015. 

The popularity of Sierreño genre and "urbano" music (especially Trap) around the mid-2010s among the Mexican and Mexican-American youth resulted in a mexican regional genre with trap influence called corridos tumbados in late 2010s. The influence of trap in the music is very subtle but can be found mainly in its culture, overall hazy and drugged-out atmosphere, and lyrics dealing with boastful, life experiences, and drug consumption themes. The music of corridos tumbados is similar to sierreño but with intrincate acoustic guitar and bass guitar playing, often in minor key and a 3/4 rhythm taking a very mellow and melodic sound. Vocals are delivered like something in between singing and a slow rap-like fashion. Despite its name, songs of the genre are not related to corridos and lack the informative storytelling of those in favor of something more personal. 

Here's Cruisin' With Junior H, a 2020 corrido tumbado album by Junior H 
https://youtu.be/Pvh_QiKbkYM

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pvh_QiKbkYM
Cruisin With Junior H Álbum Completo
Cruisin With Junior H Álbum Completo
#juniorh #ranchohumilde #album
