---
layout: post
title: "1209:"
date: 2024-04-09
---

Indigenous Andean music refers to the diverse musical styles and genres developed by the indigenous peoples of the Andes. This region encompasses the territory once occupied by Tawantinsuyu, or the Inca empire, where many distinct Indigenous communities live today. Quechua (known as Quichua in Ecuador) and Aymara are the most widely spoken languages in this area.

Traditionally, vocal music is more important among Quechua speakers, while instrumental music is more central to Aymara speakers. Men are the instrumentalists, while women are the preferred singers. The women sing using nasal resonance and emphasize the high part of their range, often using falsetto. Music from this region uses scales with three to seven tones, many with equidistant intervals. Melodic lines tend to have a descending contour and duple meter with syncopated rhythms is common. Musical texture is mostly monophonic, although some wind ensembles perform in parallel octaves, fourths, or fifths. In addition, panpipe ensembles perform in interlocking style, creating a dense sound quality. Music from this region employs sectional forms, in which each short section is immediately repeated. Because the music usually accompanies dancing, the entire piece may be repeated several times.

The content and style of song lyrics vary by genre and community, but many reveal a strong sense of place through references to the local environment. The most distinctive instrument from this region is the siku (Andean panpipe), which is played in ensembles of as many as 50 players, accompanied by four or more large double-headed drums. Music is performed during life-cycle ceremonies, Catholic and indigenous festivals, and fertility rituals associated with agriculture and herding.

Indigenous Andean music continues to evolve in the early twenty-first century, particularly through fusion with other popular music styles. 

The Music of the Andes, a 2004 performance by Andes Manta
https://youtu.be/3A6F0C4Sceg

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3A6F0C4Sceg
Andes Manta: The Music of the Andes
The vibrant, energetic music of the Andes region of South America is performed in its most authentic form by Andes Manta, musicians and natives of the Ecuadorian Andes. Learn about dozens of traditional instruments, including six-foot-long panpipes. Andes Manta musicians discuss the history, music, and traditions of their culture, demonstrate th...
