---
layout: post
title: "1204:"
date: 2024-04-04
---

As I've stated several time in the past, breakcore is my favorite genre. 

What I've found is that breakcore and its intense (often dissonant) sound and feel provides an outlet for negative expression and emotional release. Many fans and artists of the genre navigate their own experiences with mental health challenges, maybe finding a sense of understanding or solidarity within the music's dynamic and complex nature, the sound of which could be described as a form of organized chaos.

Going down the rabbit hole, you occasionally stumble across channels like this. Sometimes listeners, sometimes creators.
https://www.youtube.com/@endlesscollectivefm/videos

Some of these video titles are genuinely upsetting and I believe this person may be in a truly unhealthy headspace.

They've been uploading mixes (often the same mix with a different title) almost daily for the past few months. Most of these videos have tens of views.

The past 3 months have been fairly normal compared to the stuff before. Lately it's just been a lot of fringe sexual stuff.

The worse ones come from any time before that. Most of the titles don't need explanation, except maybe all the Sewerslvt stuff. Sewerslvt is an artist I've mentioned a few time in the past (392, 683). She's a trans woman and breakcore artist who retired following the death of her girlfriend, Angel.

It's fucked, but also interesting to just see into someone's psyche like this just by reading through the titles of playlists. It's the type of unfiltered hate and disrespect you can easily see somewhere like 4chan, but usually not youtube.

Anyway, I'm not trying to shame or a insult a person that clearly has some mental issues. All I want to do with this rec here is point to this significant side of breakcore, which can be disturbing and upsetting (especially for victims of hate), but which is also interesting, in its own way.

endless collective
