---
layout: post
title: "1249:"
date: 2024-05-19
---

Emerging from the Rio de Janeiro Funk brasileiro scene in the mid-to-late-2010s, funk 150 bpm is a Rio-born development of funk carioca characterized by fast tempos, typically reaching 150 bpm and sometimes beyond it, heightened energy, and typically faster flows as well. Due to some early producers' tendency to create the genre by speeding up existing funk tracks, certain songs of the genre also tended to have more high-pitched, distorted, "squirrel"-like rapping. It's also further distinguished from the dominant São Paulo sound by being less melodic, more "wonky" and less accessible than the poppy, catchy sounds of Funk ostentação.

The genre was initially pioneered by DJ Polyvox, who was originally inspired by the sound of his son drumming with a bottle of Coca-Cola, which he found interesting and attempted to recreate in his music. It wasn't until the later works of artists like DENNIS, that the sound began to gain prominence. Dennis' remix of MC Kevin o Chris's "Medley da gaiola (DENNIS Remix)" became nationally popular in Brazil, which influenced later artists to also begin makin tracks in the 150 bpm style. Producers are also seen as more important in 150 bpm compared to other funk scenes. The aforementioned funkeiro MC Kevin, and funkeira Rebecca, became the two most prominent artists of this later wave, with hits such as, respectively, "Ela é do tipo" and "Ao som do 150". 150 bpm is also seen as a re-awakening of Rio's funk scene after the end of its social crisis, and the long period during which São Paulo's funk scene led the genre. 

Here's Sexta dos crias by DJ Ramon Sucesso, from 2023 
https://youtu.be/RIAw07c-vi0

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RIAw07c-vi0
DJ Ramon Sucesso - Sexta dos crias [Full Album]
01. Sexta dos Crias 00:00
02. Distorcendo a Realidade 15:47

Released November 10, 2023

-----
"Known for his viral video series “Sexta dos Crias”, Ramon Sucesso is a virtuosic DJ who crushes, reimagines and rearranges songs to such a degree that the original tracks become virtually unrecognizable. He has turned his controller into a particle ac...
