---
layout: post
title: "1405:"
date: 2024-10-22
---

Chicago Blues

Emerging in the 1940s, Chicago blues became the most influential form of Electric Blues, shaping contemporary Blues music, Blues Rock, and Rock overall. Sometimes referred to as electric Chicago blues, it differentiates from Acoustic Chicago Blues. This genre is rooted in rural Delta Blues, adapted for small bands with amplified guitars, harmonicas, bass, and drums, often incorporating saxophones and horn sections.

Unlike other electric blues forms, Chicago blues maintained a raw and gritty sound, characterized by expressive vocals, slide guitar, high volume, and distortion. It commonly employs a twelve-bar blues structure, serving as a blueprint for Rock & Roll and the British Blues movement.

After Black workers migrated from the Mississippi region to the north, various blues scenes emerged, with Chicago blues being the most influential. Muddy Waters' hit "I Can't Be Satisfied" marked the genre's breakthrough, showcasing an amplified version of Country Blues. Chicago blues introduced many renowned guitarists like Elmore James and Buddy Guy.

While accommodating vocalists and pianists, the electric guitar and amplified harmonica have been its primary instruments. The harmonica played a crucial role initially, leading to the distinction in credits on recordings. Although the guitar has since dominated, the harmonica remains integral to Chicago blues, represented by artists like Sonny Boy Williamson II and Junior Wells.

Here's a song from Junior Wells' Chicago Blues Band's 1965 album Hoodoo Man Blues
https://youtu.be/02ocJTprq-c

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=02ocJTprq-c
Hoodoo Man Blues

Hoodoo Man Blues · Buddy Guy · Junior Wells

Hoodoo Man Blues
