---
layout: post
title: "1240:"
date: 2024-05-10
---

I've talked about Deconstructed House briefly before, but here's a more full description:

In the 2010s, producers and DJs merged global rhythms like Trap, Ballroom, Batida, Jersey Club, and Grime with abrasive Post-Industrial sounds, creating deconstructed club. This genre often incorporates themes tied to race, feminism, queer politics, colonialism, futurism, and technology. Identified by frantic, metallic percussion and samples like glass smashing and gunshots, deconstructed club creates an apocalyptic soundscape with constant rhythmic changes and atonality.

Free DJ mixes or mixtapes, known as mixfiles, are crucial to deconstructed club. These mixfiles can champion marginalized cultures by showcasing a remixed plethora of regional sounds underrepresented in English-speaking countries.

Deconstructed club also often involves reworked Pop songs into "bootlegs," using online rips of vocal stems and sound clips from action movies. Crampton coined the term severo to describe music inspired by family networks and communities seeking transformative justice.

Various terms have emerged to describe different shades of deconstructed club music. "Club-not-club" nights in Philadelphia mixed R&B and Pop Rap with Noise and cinematic soundscapes, while "angelwave" in Moscow featured euphoric deconstructed Trance. Deconstructed club has also lent inspiration to other genres, such as in Neoperreo giving Reggaetón a futuristic mood, Weightless taking apart the rhythms of Grime, and Hyperpop often featuring metallic percussion


Here's Tidal Memory Exo, a 2024 album (released last week) by Iglooghost (see rec 369).
https://youtu.be/MId3KYmvsXI

It's got a mechanical, futuristic, and atmospheric feel. Having heard his earlier work, it's interesting to see him move in a heavier, almost cyberpunk-oriented direction compared to his lighthearted and quirky feel of Neō Wax Bloom. Extremely well-produced.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MId3KYmvsXI
Iglooghost - Tidal Memory Exo「Full Album」
⠕ Buy / Stream 𖦹 → https://l-ky.me/lm105
⠕⠕⠕ LIVE DATES / TICKETS → https://www.iglooghost.xyz

“Tidal Memory Exo is an album I made while living in a rust-ridden flooded squat in a weird UK seaside town. The area has been in an endless storm, causing strange otherworldly primordial garbage to be washed to shore. It’s basically only populated by...
