---
layout: post
title: "1246:"
date: 2024-05-16
---

Here's a lovely contemporary classical composition I heard performed at a recent live NAC broadcast

Gumboots by David Bruce 
https://youtu.be/rRIDt_4Xloc

Bruce wrote this about his composition:
There is a paradox in music, and indeed all art - the fact that life-enriching art has been produced, even inspired by conditions of tragedy, brutality and oppression, a famous example being Messiaen's Quartet for the End of Time, written while he was in a prisoner of war camp. Gumboot Dancing bears this trait - it was born out of the brutal labour conditions in South Africa under Apartheid, in which black miners where chained together and wore Gumboots (wellington boots) while they worked in the flooded gold mines, because it was cheaper for the owners to supply the boots than to drain the floodwater from the mine. Apparently slapping the boots and chains was used by the workers as a form of communication which was otherwise banned in the mine, and this later developed into a form of dance. It is characterised by a huge vitality and zest for life. So this for me is a striking example of how something beautiful and life-enhancing can come out of something far more negative.

My 'Gumboots' is in two parts of roughly equal length, the first is tender and slow moving, at times 'yearning'; at times seemingly expressing a kind of tranquility and inner peace. The second is a complete contrast, consisting of five lively 'gumboot dances', often joyful and always vital.

However, although there are some African music influences in the music, I don't see the piece as being specifically 'about' the Gumboot dancers, if anything it could be seen as an abstract celebration of the rejuvinating power of dance, moving as it does from introspection through to celebration. I would like to think however, that the emotional journey of the piece, and specifically the complete contrast between the two halves will force the listener to conjecture some kind of external 'meaning' to the music.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rRIDt_4Xloc
Gumboots by David Bruce - score follow
Gumboots for Clarinet (dbl Bass Clarinet) and String Quartet
Commissioned by Carnegie Hall Corporation
First performance Todd Palmer, St Lawrence String Quartet, Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, NYC, 23rd Oct 2008
Duration 23 mins
Composed Feb-Sept 2008
Performed here by Julian Bliss and Carducci String Quartet 
Recording commercially available and o...
