---
layout: post
title: "1256:"
date: 2024-05-26
---

Indie surf is a style of Indie Rock which emerged in the late 2000s, primarily in the United States. Stylistically, the genre incorporates the melodic Pop Rock sensibilities of 2000s indie rock (especially Post-Punk Revival) into a more lo-fi and reverb-drenched sound in the vein of Slacker Rock and the hazy psychedelic nostalgia of Ariel Pink's southern California Hypnagogic Pop. Its most defining feature is the influence from Surf Rock in the guitar style, present in the more uptempo Surf Punk and Garage Rock Revival oriented artists as well as the slower Dream Pop-adjacent side of the genre, though the latter also draws from the 1960s melodies of Vocal Surf by way of The Beach Boys. Beyond surf music, guitars also frequently have a jangly sound which along with indie surf's poppy melodicism link it with Jangle Pop. Aesthetically, the genre has a lot in common with its contemporary Chillwave, embracing retro graphic design and photography with a particular focus on the beach and the ocean.

Though surf influences had been incorporated in the indie scene through the lens of Psychedelic Pop by Animal Collective and their Paw Tracks label through the 2000s, the indie surf genre would not really emerge as a distinct phenomenon until 2009 and 2010. The first wave of the genre was led by groups like Real Estate, Surfer Blood, Wavves, The Drums, Beach Fossils, and Best Coast, who all released major albums during this two year period and gained coverage through the indie blogosphere. Indie surf would fade from prominence after the early 2010s, but most of these bands have continued to release music and tour, alongside newer groups like La Luz, Surf Curse, and SadGirl. 

Here's Goose Bumps, a 2015 album by Boyscott
https://youtu.be/b7ieiKoz_58

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b7ieiKoz_58
Boyscott - Goosebumps (Full Album)
Support Boyscott:
https://boyscott.bandcamp.com

Sleepwalk 0:00
Blonde Blood 3:10
Nova Scotia 500 7:17
Marco Polo 10:29
Sinking Down 13:44
R.I.P. Sophie Moore 16:40
KIller Whale 20:30
Lake House 22:58
Embarrassingly Enough 26:40
Sleepaway 29:55
