---
layout: post
title: "1325:"
date: 2024-08-03
---

Bandas de viento de México and Banda sinaloense

Bandas de viento de México describes music performed by brass bands across Mexico. Formed during the 1860s and 1870s by many locals trying to imitate the various military bands that were present in the country, the composition of the interpreting groups change depending on the region. Due to the widespread presence of this type of ensembles, a strong sense of community is built around each band in their places of origin. There has also been the immense popularity for decades of one of its forms, Banda sinaloense. Thus, unlike many other genres, this tradition remains vibrant in many places. 


Banda sinaloense is a form of Mexican brass band music which originated in the western state of Sinaloa. Usually, banda sinaloense is performed with the militaristic-type arrangements of traditional Bandas de viento de México music, with prominence on the tuba / sousaphone backing and tenor tuned horns. Bands from the style often incorporate large amounts of brass & woodwind musicians with the accompanyment of marching-type percussive instruments, usually within a range of 15-20 members; some bands may also include distinct instruments including the clarinet and accordion.

Here's Vencedor, a single from 2006 by Banda Guasaveña de Valentín Elizalde
https://youtu.be/FrNTpDH5ruQ

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FrNTpDH5ruQ
Valentín Elizalde - Vencedor (Chyron)
Music video by Valentín Elizalde performing Vencedor. (C) 2007 Fonovisa Una División De Universal Music México S.A. De C.V.

http://vevo.ly/qbeJ3t

#ValentínElizalde #Vencedor #Vevo
