---
layout: post
title: "1305:"
date: 2024-07-14
---

Astigmatic is a 1966 album Post-Bop, Avant-Garde Jazz album by the Komeda Quintet, led by Krzysztof Komeda.
https://youtu.be/tzD1OjHNc6s

Krzysztof Trzciński, known professionally as Krzysztof Komeda, was a Polish film music composer and jazz pianist. Perhaps best known for his work in film scores, Komeda wrote the scores for Roman Polanski’s films Knife in the Water, Cul-de-sac, The Fearless Vampire Killers, and Rosemary’s Baby.

In December 1968, in Los Angeles, Komeda had a tragic accident which led to a haematoma of the brain. He was pushed off an escarpment by writer Marek Hłasko during a drinking party. Film director and convicted sex offender and fugitive from the United States justice system since 1978 Roman Polański mentioned in his memoirs that as a result of friendly rough-and-tumble with Marek Hłasko, Komeda fell down and suffered head injuries. Medical treatment in the US hospital did not save his life. After being transported home to Poland in a coma and in a terminal state, he died in April 1969, aged 37. Hłasko himself died just two months later, aged 35.


Here's an excerpt of a review of the album by Jazzis on RYM:
This music, encapsulated for eternity in a piece of plastic, is one of the great milestones of human Culture, an ultra-rare eruption of human genius. Recorded by a quintet led by Polish pianist / composer Krzysztof Komeda, the legendary Godfather of Polish Jazz, this is definitely the most important piece of music recorded in Eastern Europe, which changed the face of Culture far beyond what most people realize. Universally accepted as a model and artistic / aesthetic climax by generations of Jazz musicians in Komeda's native Poland and far beyond the country borders, this modern Jazz recording influenced innumerable minds and prompted endless artistic processes.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tzD1OjHNc6s
Komeda Quintet | Astigmatic (Full album)
1966 Astigmatic | Komeda Quintet

01 Astigmatic (23.02)
02 Kattorna (7.28)
03 Svantetic (15.56)


nice
https://youtu.be/1v9zl6mBpwc

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1v9zl6mBpwc
ELDEN RING:  Animated Ode to Miquella
💔 SHADOW OF THE ERDTREE SPOILERS 💔

My animated ode to Miquella, whose deeds will ever be praised in song. 

CREDITS
Design, Animation: Me
Song: Taylor Swift - Mastermind
Characters, very-easy-to-understand Lore: FromSoftware
