---
layout: post
title: "1266:"
date: 2024-06-05
---

Tone poem is a programmatic Orchestral Music work, usually in a single movement, that is entirely based on external non-musical themes, ideas, tales, etc. Tone poems arose at the second half of the 19th century and remained popular throughout the 20th century. The term was coined by Franz Liszt when he described his 13 orchestral works as "symphonic poems". Among other famous composers of tone poems are Claude Debussy, Hector Berlioz, Richard Strauss or Bedřich Smetana. Gustav Holst's "The Planets" is one example.

Here's another, Scheherazade, based on One Thousand and One Nights (also known as The Arabian Nights).
https://youtu.be/S50Or87VQgY
This is a 1960 performance. Composed by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov and performed by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.

This orchestral work combines two features typical of Russian music in general and of Rimsky-Korsakov in particular: dazzling, colorful orchestration and an interest in the East, which figured greatly in the history of Imperial Russia, as well as orientalism in general. The name "Scheherazade" refers to the main character Scheherazade of One Thousand and One Nights. It is one of Rimsky-Korsakov's most popular works.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S50Or87VQgY
Rimsky-Korsakoff - Scheherazade.  Fritz Reiner & the Chicago Sympho...
This recording is on many all-time best lists. The music, orchestra, and the conductor need no introduction.   This was one of the finest recordings to come out from RCA during the era they used the famous "Shaded Dog" label.  This album is one of the few that has been available in vinyl almost continuously since it came out.

While I generally ...
