---
layout: post
title: "1229:"
date: 2024-04-29
---

American primitivism is a musical style originated by guitarist John Fahey in the late 1950s. American primitive guitar is characterized by blending avant-garde and neo-classical compositions with traditional Country Blues fingerpicking techniques. Another distinct feature of this genre is incorporation of raga structure taken from Hindustani Classical Music (see rec 756). American primitivism is primarily instrumental, though artists such as Robbie Basho included vocals in their music. This style was a major component of Fahey's Takoma Records label.

Fahey's own term "American primitive guitar" is nowadays often seen in analogy to "primitivism" in visual arts, a fascination of European painters and sculptors with the art of (ethnocentrically speaking) 'primitive' cultures, from 1890 onwards. This analogy has at least two aspects: first, Fahey himself directly refers to the untutored, auto-didactic quality of French primitivist painter Henri Rousseau's work. Secondly, like primitivism in visual arts, American primitive guitar tries to incorporate powerful, raw and authentic elements of 'primitive' music, but uses these elements for its own purposes and with little regard to other current art or music more affiliated with 'high culture'.

Here's John Fahey's 1973 album  Fare Forward Voyagers (Soldier's Choice) 
https://youtu.be/KrMuPhqRzZg

A nice meditative acoustic album that features impressive dynamic and technical guitar playing.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KrMuPhqRzZg
John Fahey - Fare Forward Voyagers (Full Album)
00:00 When the Fire and the Rose Are One
13:54 Thus Krishna on the Battlefield
20:31 Fare Forward Voyagers
