---
layout: post
title: "1329:"
date: 2024-08-07
---

Corrido

Born in the late 18th century, corridos flourished after the Mexican Independence War, with "the golden period" culminating with the Mexican Revolution one century later. Corridos were meant to spread news through the Mexican territory by folk singers who usually just accompanied the song with a guitar. Lyrically corridos follow a simple structure where they introduce themselves, proceed to tell a story, and telling the moral of the story at the end. Time signatures are mostly 3/4 with the verses consisting of 8 syllables.

Recently the theme of corridos has been focused towards drug kingpins creating the so-called "narco-corridos", being closer to the Norteño genre while retaining some forms of the classical corridos. 

Here's a performance by Chalino Sánchez of Alma Enamorada from his 1992 album Ya Después De Muerto.
https://youtu.be/dMNBjH--74w

Famously, at this performance and seen in the video, Chalino was handed a note from someone in the crowd. The note is commonly believed to have been a death threat whereby he would be killed after the song, but this has never been confirmed. A video recording of the song "Alma Enamorada" shows Chalino crumpling up the note—in a clear state of shock—before singing the song as if nothing happened. After midnight, Chalino drove away from the club with two of his brothers, a cousin, and several young women. They were pulled over by a group of armed men in black Chevrolet Suburbans. They showed state police ID cards and told Chalino their commander wanted to see him. Chalino agreed and got into one of their cars while the others stayed behind.

The following day, at six in the morning, two farmers found Chalino's body by an irrigation canal near Highway 15, near the neighborhood of Los Laureles, Culiacán. He was blindfolded and his wrists were red and had rope marks. He had been shot in the back of the head twice.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dMNBjH--74w
Chalino Sánchez - Alma Enamorada (En Vivo)
Escucha 'Mi Mexico Querido: Chalino Sanchez' aquí: https://found.ee/mmq-chalinosanchez-digital-lat 

Su canto auténtico se empezó a escuchar un día, entre los aires del campo, entre la tierra humilde, y poco a poco su nombre se volvió leyenda; Al paso de los años, Imitadores surgen a diario pero sólo hay un Chalino Sánchez.

Chalino Sánchez is o...


Also famously: In 1975 his sister was raped, and two years later in 1977 Chalino saw the man at a party and allegedly shot him in revenge, killing him. Chalino was 15 at this time. After committing this act, Sanchez left for Tijuana with his gun and a Jesús Malverde chain. During his time in Tijuana, he worked as a "coyote" (an immigrant smuggler), taking immigrants into the United States.
