---
layout: post
title: "1225:"
date: 2024-04-25
---

Spiritual jazz is a style of Jazz music which emerged in the 1960s. It is closely associated with the musical and spiritual philosophy developed by John Coltrane in the mid-1960s (manifested as early as his seminal A Love Supreme album) which was passed on to his collaborators Alice Coltrane and Pharoah Sanders.

Stylistically, spiritual jazz is marked by a mixture of jazz with approximations of ethnic music styles (often a blend of styles evocative of African, Indian, and East Asian musical traditions), religious music of non-Christian traditions, and the ecstatic, transcendental aspects of Free Jazz. This radical style was closely linked to various African-American political and spiritual movements, such as the Nation of Islam and Afro-Centrism, the introduction of Zen philosophy and yoga in America, a resurgence of Egyptology, as well as the Civil Rights and Black Power movements. 

Pharoah Sanders (1940 – 2022) was an American jazz saxophonist. Known for his distinctive saxophone playing, as well as his use of "sheets of sound", Sanders played a prominent role in the development of free jazz and spiritual jazz through his work as a member of John Coltrane's groups in the mid-1960s, and later through his solo work. He released more than thirty albums as a leader and collaborated extensively with others. Fellow saxophonist Ornette Coleman once described him as "probably the best tenor player in the world".

Sanders' take on "spiritual jazz" was rooted in his inspiration from religious concepts such as Karma and Tawhid, and his rich, meditative performance aesthetic. This style was seen as a continuation of Coltrane's work on albums such as A Love Supreme (rec 245). As a result, Sanders was considered to have been a disciple of Coltrane.

Here's his 1969 album Karma
https://youtu.be/2t88stnbP0g

I find it a bit less meditative than other spiritual jazz, but it's passionate and uplifting

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2t88stnbP0g
Pharoah Sanders - Karma 1969  full album
Pharoah Sanders - Karma 1969  full album
