---
layout: post
title: "1448:"
date: 2024-12-04
---

Post-Britpop

Post-Britpop, a successor to Britpop, emerged in the late 1990s with bands like Coldplay, Travis, Keane, and Snow Patrol. These groups shifted away from the 1960s-inspired sounds of Britpop, drawing instead from alternative and American indie rock, alongside softer styles like acoustic and piano rock. Known for introspective and philosophical lyrics, post-Britpop acts often leaned into ballads with mid-tempo structures, lush string arrangements, and a grand, atmospheric sound influenced by artists like U2 and dream pop.

As Britpop waned in the mid-1990s, many of its key acts disbanded or explored darker, experimental directions, while bands like Radiohead and The Verve gained prominence. Emerging guitar-driven groups embraced a more contemplative style, avoiding the Britpop label. Post-Britpop bands achieved international acclaim in the late 1990s and early 2000s, revitalizing Britain’s rock scene before losing steam in the mid-2000s amid the rise of post-punk and garage rock revivals. However, their influence persisted, shaping indie rock acts like Arctic Monkeys and Bloc Party.

Here's Lightbulb Sun, a 2000 album by English rock band Porcupine Tree
https://youtu.be/DojlLzi9V3Y

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DojlLzi9V3Y
Porcupine Tree - Lightbulb Sun [Full Album]
produced by Steven Wilson in 2000

Tracklist
========

00:00 Lightbulb Sun 
05:30 How Is Your Life Today?
08:15 Four Chords That Made A Million
11:51 Shesmovedon 
17:07 Last Chance To Evacuate Planet Earth Before It Is Recycled
21:56 The Rest Will Flow 
25:10 Hatesong 
33:34 Where We Would Be 
37:49 Russia On Ice 
50:51 Feel So Low

#ptnation
#p...
