---
layout: post
title: "1489:"
date: 2025-01-14
---

Brazilian Classical Music

Western Classical Music arrived in Brazil with Portuguese monks in the 16th century. By the 17th and 18th centuries, Minas Gerais became a hub for Brazilian-born composers like José Maurício Nunes Garcia and José Joaquim Emerico Lobo de Mesquita, who followed European styles without local adaptations. In the early 19th century, Opera was dominant, with Antônio Carlos Gomes adding a Brazilian touch to European trends in Joana de Flandres (1863). In 1869, Brasílio Itiberê da Cunha infused Romanticism with Brazilian popular music in Sertaneja, but a true nationalist movement emerged later with Alberto Nepomuceno, Francisco Ernani Braga, and Ernesto Nazareth, who incorporated Maxixe and Choro into classical music.

Heitor Villa-Lobos is regarded as Brazil’s most significant composer, blending Modern Classical with folk influences in Bachianas brasileiras and Choros. The 1922 Modern Art Week promoted the idea that Brazilian music should reflect national identity rather than imitate European traditions.

Contrasting this nationalism, the Música Viva group, formed in 1945 by Edino Krieger and Claudio Santoro, embraced dodecaphonic and atonal techniques. Meanwhile, Camargo Guarnieri’s school focused on historical approaches to Brazilian composition. In 1963, Música Nova emerged, favoring experimental, non-nationalistic styles. By the 1970s, neo-traditional trends resurged, but Brazilian classical music continues to shift between nationalist and avant-garde movements.

Much of Paulinho Nogueira's music (see 254) is a good example of modern Brazilian Classical music. 

Heitor Villa-Lobos (see 304) is another good example. Here's his 12 Études for guitar, performed in 2000 by Norbert Kraft
https://youtu.be/Lg0YJgS-eos

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lg0YJgS-eos
Heitor Villa-Lobos: 12 Études for guitar (Norbert Kraft)
0:00 No. 1 in E minor: Allegro non troppo 
1:55 No. 2 in A major: Allegro 
3:17 No. 3 in D major: Allegro moderato 
5:25 No. 4 in E minor: Un peu modéré 
8:40 No. 5 in G major: Andantino 
10:37 No. 6 in E minor: Poco allegro 
12:14 No. 7 in E major: Très animé 
14:30 No. 8 in C Sharp minor: Modéré - Lent 
17:22 No. 9 in F sharp minor: Très peu a...
