---
layout: post
title: "1486:"
date: 2025-01-11
---

The Chicago school of post-rock emerged in the early 1990s, blending Indie Rock and Jazz into a distinct sound within the "first wave" of post-rock. While retaining standard Rock instrumentation, it tends to favor a minimal or acoustic style, incorporating elements like keyboards, brass, or vibraphones, and often evoking a Lounge or Jazz Fusion atmosphere. Influences from Krautrock, Dub, and contemporary Electronic textures are also prevalent. In Japan, the scene was known as シカゴ音響派 (Chicago onkyō-ha), aligning with the Onkyo movement's focus on sonic exploration.

Rooted in groups like Slint and Bastro, the scene grew after members relocated to Chicago. Bastro morphed into Gastr del Sol under David Grubbs, while Pajo from Slint joined Tortoise, the core of the Chicago school. These bands, along with The Sea and Cake, were linked by producer John McEntire, who collaborated with all and worked with other artists like Stereolab. Jim O'Rourke, also key to the scene, led Brise-Glace and joined Gastr del Sol, contributing to a series of solo albums. The Chicago Underground, featuring groups like Isotope 217° and Exploding Star Orchestra, further merged the city's Avant-Garde Jazz roots with post-rock. The scene was supported by underground labels such as Thrill Jockey and Drag City.

Influence spread to acts like New York’s Ui and Toronto’s Do Make Say Think, who were inspired by and performed with Chicago bands. The Red Krayola, with Grubbs, McEntire, and O'Rourke, also became part of this movement. In the post-2000s era, groups like The Eternals and volcano! innovated within the Chicago school, while Tortoise and The Sea and Cake continued their legacy through new releases and touring.

Here's Tortoise's 1998 album TNT
https://youtu.be/2WGb_9UW6EU

Fascinating take on post rock. Complex and unpredictable, yet full of familiar elements. I love breakbeat rhythms and complex soundscapes of textures, and this has those in spades.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2WGb_9UW6EU
Tortoise - TNT [Full Album]
We share post-rock songs, albums and playlists.
Artist: Tortoise (USA)
Album: TNT (1998)
http://www.trts.com

1. TNT 00:00
2. Swing From The Gutters 7:34
3. Ten-Day Interval 13:29
4. I Set My Face To The Hillside 18:16
5. The Equator 24:26
6. A Simple Way To Go Faster Than Light That Does Not Work 28:27
7. The Suspension Bridge At Iguazu Falls 3...
