---
layout: post
title: "1566:"
date: 2025-04-01
---

Minyue (short for minzu yinyue, "ethnic/national music") refers to modern Chinese music composed for traditional Chinese instruments. It evolved from Chinese folk music and includes both solo and orchestral works, with orchestras modeled after Western symphonies.

The term became widely used after 1949, replacing the earlier term guoyue, which had emerged in the early 20th century to describe modern compositions for Chinese instruments. This musical movement was part of broader modernization efforts after the Qing Dynasty's fall in 1912 and was influenced by the New Culture and May Fourth Movements.

Key figures like Liu Tianhua and Zheng Jinwen expanded traditional ensembles, introduced Western techniques, and formalized music education. In 1953, the China Broadcasting Chinese Orchestra set the standard for modern Chinese orchestras using standardized tuning and newly developed instruments.

During the Cultural Revolution (1966–76), most orchestras were disbanded, and music was politically driven. But in the 1980s, orchestral minyue saw a revival, including in places like Taiwan and Singapore, where it is known as huayue.

Here's 大寨紅花遍地開 : 民族器樂曲 (The Red Flower of Tachai Blossoms Everywhere: Music Played on National Instruments), a 1974 album by various artists. 
https://youtu.be/dhjiJUpYjes

This recording of showcases postwar developments in traditional Chinese orchestral music, using instruments like zithers, lutes, woodwinds, and percussion. Sourced from a vinyl rip, it features pastoral and work-themed pieces linked to rural China. Released by the China Record Corporation during the post-Cultural Revolution era, it differs from revolutionary operas and contrasts with modern, heavily produced versions of the genre.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dhjiJUpYjes
The Red Flower of Tachai Blossoms Everywhere
The Red Flower Of Tachai Blossoms Everywhere - 1974
Music played on traditional Chinese instruments. One of David Bowie's favorite albums uploaded here and ripped straight from the vinyl itself!

Read Bowie's interview in Vanity Fair here: https://www.vanityfair.com/culture/2016/04/david-bowie-favorite-albums
More history on the album here: http...
