---
layout: post
title: "1565:"
date: 2025-03-31
---

I very briefly mentioned the Suona on 234.

The suona, also known as dida, laba, or haidi, is a traditional Chinese double-reed wind instrument with a loud, piercing tone. Its design traces back to ancient Iran, where it was called the "sorna," and it was introduced to China around the 3rd century. The suona remains especially popular in regions such as Shandong, Henan, Hebei, Shanxi, Shaanxi, Gansu, parts of southern China, and the northeast.

Historically, the suona played a major role in northern Chinese folk music, particularly for celebrations, festivals, and military events. It is commonly performed outdoors in ensembles that include gongs, drums, and sheng mouth organs, particularly during weddings and funerals. These groups are known as chuida or guchui ensembles. In Chinese culture, the suona has deep ties to ritual music and has been central to both joyful and solemn Daoist ceremonies.

The instrument also features prominently in southeastern Chinese rituals and has been the subject of research by scholars like Stephen Jones. A well-known piece that highlights the suona is Bai Niao Chao Feng ("Hundred Birds Worship the Phoenix"). Its cultural significance and changing role over time were dramatized in the film Song of the Phoenix.

Here's a performance of the track mentioned, this one arranged by Phang Kok Jun for a 2019 Chinese New Year Concert. Hundred Birds Worship the Phoenix has the performer has the suona player imitating several birds. It's incredible that one instrument can make such an array of sounds.
https://youtu.be/HJ8je96siWA

As both a vessel of tradition and a symbol of innovation, the suona continues to represent the spirit of Chinese folk music. On May 20, 2006, it was recognized as part of China’s national intangible cultural heritage.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HJ8je96siWA
A Hundred Birds Paying Homage to the Phoenix 《百鸟朝凤》
Proudly presented to you by Ding Yi Music Company (鼎艺团):

A Hundred Birds Paying Homage to the Phoenix 百鸟朝凤
Arranged by Phang Kok Jun 冯国峻 改编

Suona 唢呐: Jacky Ng 黄永和

Happy Chinese New Year Concert 2019. 17 Feb 2019
China Cultural Centre Theatre 
Conductor ：Wong De Li, Dedric

2019新春音乐会 17/02/2019
中...
