---
layout: post
title: "1562:"
date: 2025-03-28
---

Flashcore is a subgenre of electronic music defined by its rapid, erratic structure, abstract sound design, and experimental nature. It features chaotic, staccato layers interwoven with noise, glitch elements, ambient textures, and reimagined rhythms from genres like IDM, Speedcore, and Breakcore. Aesthetically, flashcore leans heavily into futuristic and space-inspired themes, both in sound and visual presentation. While modular synthesis and electroacoustic techniques are common, any method of production can be used to create its intense, complex sound.

Coined by La Peste (Laurent Mialon, AKA Krystal Jesus) in his 2004 Flashcore Manifesto, the genre was envisioned as a break from traditional music, capable of producing immersive and even hallucinogenic experiences. Rooted in France's underground scene in the late '90s and early 2000s, collectives like Hangars Liquides evolved flashcore from hardcore EDM, while artists like Xanopticon pushed its boundaries in North America. Throughout the 2000s and 2010s, figures like Mialon, Jan Robbe, and qebrµs continued developing the genre's abstract and alien sonic identity. In recent years, flashcore has gained a wider presence in experimental music circles, often blending with styles like Extratone and Deconstructed Club, with most modern releases found on Bandcamp.

Here's a 2021 album, For Liza, Beyond the Event Horizon., by Krystal Jesus, pioneer of the genre
https://youtu.be/weYekRewoOE

In many ways the album is flashcore’s magnum opus. 

It is chaotic, complex, mechanical, atmospheric, and highly technical.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=weYekRewoOE
Krystal Jesus - For Liza, beyond the event horizon. (2021)
https://soundcloud.com/krystal_jesus/for-liza-beyond-the-event-horizon

"It's 20 years at the date of this upload Liza N'Eliaz left this world. This little assemblage is for Her, without whom I would not have fallen in love with frequencies in the audio range to the point of dedicating my life to them. She is the one who openned the door. Once s...
