---
layout: post
title: "1549:"
date: 2025-03-15
---

Hardstyle originated in the early 2000s in Italy and the Netherlands, evolving from Hard Trance with strong Hardcore EDM influences. It quickly developed into a distinct genre, characterized by a fast tempo (around 150 BPM), heavily compressed kick drums, and the signature reverse bass, which created a unique rhythmic drive. Another defining feature was the screech—a high-pitched, distorted synth that became a staple of the genre. Dutch Gabber, particularly Nu Style Gabber, heavily influenced early Hardstyle, contributing to its aggressive and energetic sound. Around the same time, Belgium’s Jumpstyle emerged as a related but more accessible and danceable genre, drawing influences from UK Hard House and Happy Hardcore. Though Jumpstyle saw commercial success in the mid-2000s, its popularity declined, while Hardstyle continued to evolve.

As Hardstyle progressed through the late 2000s and 2010s, it became increasingly diverse, with producers incorporating elements from other EDM genres. Some experimented with multi-genre tracks that included Hardstyle drops alongside other styles, while others focused on blending Hardstyle’s core elements with emerging dance music trends. This led to the development of Dubstyle, which combined Hardstyle with the wobbling basslines and structures of late 2000s Brostep, as well as Hard Trap, which borrowed Rawstyle’s distorted kicks and aggressive sound design. Another variation, Lento Violento, emerged in Italy, fusing Hardstyle with slower, more atmospheric Italo Dance influences.

These cross-genre experiments helped Hardstyle remain relevant throughout the 2010s, allowing it to influence and be influenced by the broader EDM landscape. Despite changes and offshoots, the genre maintained its core identity, continuing to be a dominant force in the harder styles of dance music while attracting both underground and mainstream audiences.

Here's SFR manpower(cîroc boyz) , a 2023 album by Forever United
https://youtu.be/vY0mIBx-HbM

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vY0mIBx-HbM
Forever United - SFR manpower (cîroc boyz)
sfr.manpower
ulmtd black bottles this night lasts 4ever
str-55cîroc boyz #real#d€sign€r#music
#€urotrash

00:00 01. dancesafe (Tears 4 Forever United)
02:34 02. Glitter Tear Drops
04:43 03. Di☆r junkie
07:54 04. Atalanta (feat. MYA)
09:50 05. univé
11:59 06. XTC(evian)
15:20 07. 7☆ (Tears Secret Mix)
17:36 08. Nightvision
20:20 09. m...
