---
layout: post
title: "1494:"
date: 2025-01-19
---

Bohuslav Jan Martinů (1890–1959) was a Czech composer known for his modern classical music. His extensive output includes six symphonies, fifteen operas, fourteen ballets, and numerous orchestral, chamber, vocal, and instrumental works. Initially a violinist in the Czech Philharmonic Orchestra, he studied under Josef Suk.

After moving to Paris in 1923, Martinů moved away from the Romantic style and experimented with modern French music and jazz influences, seen in works like Half-time and Kitchen Revue (Kuchyňská revue). In the 1930s, he embraced neoclassicism, developing dense textures and composing prolifically. Notable works from this period include Concerto Grosso and the Double Concerto for Two String Orchestras, Piano and Timpani. His operas Juliette and The Greek Passion are considered his finest, and his use of Czech folk melodies, as in The Opening of the Springs (Otvírání studánek), links him to composers like Prokofiev and Bartók.

Bohuslav Martinů's Puppets (Loutky) is a collection of 14 short piano pieces, composed between 1912 and 1924. 
https://youtu.be/5Gpj4l-TPnw?t=1663
Pierrot's serenade {Pierotovo zastaveníčko}- Scherzando is my favorite among these.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Gpj4l-TPnw&start=1663
Bohuslav Martinů - Puppets {Loutky} Book I - II - III
- Composer: Bohuslav Martinů (8 December 1890 -- 28 August 1959)
- Performer: Paul Kaspar (piano)
- Year of recording: 2009

Loutky (Puppets) for piano, Book I, H. 137, written in 1924
Loutky (Puppets) for piano, Book II, H. 116, written in 1914-1918
Loutky (Puppets) for piano, Book III, H. 92, written in 1912-1914

Book I
00:00 - 1. Colombine's...
