---
layout: post
title: "1606:"
date: 2025-05-11
---

Crossover thrash is a fusion of Thrash Metal and Hardcore Punk, with the term 'crossover' denoting an in-between of the two genres. Crossover thrash typically features briefer, less technically demanding arrangements than other forms of thrash metal, borrowing more directly from the straight-ahead approach of Punk. Crossover thrash mostly utilizes shouted vocals. Lyrically, crossover thrash focuses on sociopolitical matters and/or rebellious themes similar to those of punk.

The etymology of the term 'crossover' thrash is commonly attributed to D.R.I.'s second album: 1987's Crossover. On the record, D.R.I. made a transition from the hardcore punk subgenre Thrashcore to a more metal-informed sound. The hardcore punk group Suicidal Tendencies similarly shifted to a more metallic sound while retaining their hardcore roots on their sophomore record: 1987's Join the Army. While not necessarily a crossover thrash group, "big four" thrash metal band Anthrax similarly contributed to the mixture of sounds; additionally, Anthrax guitarist Scott Ian formed the crossover thrash project S.O.D.. The New York Hardcore scene made key contributions to crossover thrash, with notable groups such as Agnostic Front and Cro-Mags further popularizing the style. Crossover thrash would wane in popularity as thrash metal was overshadowed by other styles during the 1990s, however, it influenced later Hardcore [Punk]/Metal fusions, most notably Metalcore. Crossover thrash would also make a modest comeback in the 21st century with groups such as Municipal Waste and Power Trip (the latter of which received critical acclaim). 

Here's Evil Army's self-titled 2006 album
https://youtu.be/poN113lEkWA

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=poN113lEkWA
Evil Army – Evil Army (2006 Full Album)
01 - 00:00 - Edge of Destruction (Intro)
02 - 00:43 - Evil Army
03 - 02:43 - Driven to Violence
04 - 04:01 - Realm of Death
05 - 07:58 - Wrong Approach
06 - 09:11 - Sgt. Says Kill
07 - 11:03 - Conquer Human Life
08 - 14:31 - Severe Mental Disorder
09 - 15:37 - Relentless Assault
10 - 18:12 - Satan Made Me Do It
11 - 18:59 - Scum of the Earth
12 ...
