---
layout: post
title: "1586:"
date: 2025-04-21
---

The Hoboken sound refers to a music scene centered around Hoboken, New Jersey, which gained prominence in the late 1970s through the early 1980s, starting with the opening of the Maxwell's venue. The style was a blend of uptempo Post-Punk, jerky New Wave, Power Pop, and Garage Rock, influenced by East Coast songwriters like Lou Reed and Jonathan Richman, as well as the CBGB Punk scene in New York City. This sound played a key role in the development of early American Jangle Pop and Alternative Rock scenes across the country, and Maxwell's became a hub for "college rock" acts. Local journalists coined the term "Hoboken sound," and the scene even received an hour-long documentary in 1985.

Maxwell's was central to the scene's history, with the first performance by the group "a" and the rise of notable bands like The Individuals and The Bongos. The Feelies, from nearby Haledon, also gained a following, releasing their influential debut Crazy Rhythms in 1980. Chris Stamey, leader of The dB's, was another key figure in the scene, as were bands associated with his label, Coyote Records, including Stamey’s solo work and the Feelies' offshoots.

In the mid-1980s, Glenn Morrow from The Individuals formed Rage to Live, whose debut album marked the start of Bar/None Records, a label that helped further the scene. The late '80s saw a resurgence, with The Feelies reuniting and Yo La Tengo gaining national acclaim. Though the Hoboken sound faded by the early 1990s, both The Feelies and Yo La Tengo continued to be active, with Yo La Tengo gaining significant indie success. Maxwell's closed in 2013, briefly reopening under new ownership from 2014 to 2018.

Here's Side A of Crazy Rhythms, a 1980 Post-punk or Art-punk album by The Feelies 
https://youtu.be/085c9efxNw4

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=085c9efxNw4
The Feelies- Crazy Rhythms (Side One)
The Feelies
Crazy Rhythms (Side One) 
1980

1. The Boy With The Perpetual Nervousness 0:00
2. Fa Ce-La 4:23
3. Loveless Love 6:23
4. Forces At Work 11:35


     Crazy Rhythms was their debut studio album. It was released in the United Kingdom on February 29, 1980 &  in the United States in April of 1980. Its fusion of post-punk & jangle pop was ...
