---
layout: post
title: "1531:"
date: 2025-02-25
---

Cantus in Memoriam Benjamin Britten is a short canon in A minor, composed in 1977 by Estonian composer Arvo Pärt for string orchestra and bell. It is an early example of Pärt’s tintinnabuli style, which was influenced by his study of early chant music (and which I've talked a little about on 1508). The piece is often noted for its simplicity, built around a single melodic motif and framed by moments of silence at both the beginning and end. However, as critic Ivan Hewett points out, while the concept may be simple, the interplay of musical lines creates a complex texture that challenges the listener’s perception. A typical performance lasts about six and a half minutes.

Pärt wrote the cantus as an elegy following the death of English composer Benjamin Britten in December 1976. Deeply admiring Britten, Pärt described him as possessing a rare "purity" that he also aspired to achieve in his own compositions. Cantus in Memoriam Benjamin Britten is considered one of Pärt’s most well-known works, and a widely distributed 1997 recording by the Hungarian State Opera Orchestra, conducted by Tamás Benedek, helped popularize it. Its atmospheric and cinematic quality has made it a frequent choice for film and television soundtracks.

Here's a performance of the work by Orchestre philharmonique de Radio France
https://youtu.be/GMF2C2-zcWM

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GMF2C2-zcWM
Arvo Pärt : Cantus in memoriam Benjamin Britten
Le chef Kent Nagano dirige l'Orchestre philharmonique de Radio France dans le Cantus in memoriam Benjamin Britten, composé par Arvo Pärt.
