---
layout: post
title: "1528:"
date: 2025-02-22
---

Cabaret is a form of entertainment that blends comedy, music, and dance, typically performed outside traditional theaters. Emerging in late 19th-century France, it became known for its underground, adult-oriented shows held in bars and nightclubs. During America’s Prohibition era, the term was associated with risqué performances like burlesque, often staged in illegal speakeasies with jazz as the dominant musical style.

Cabaret has influenced several major artistic movements, including Dadaism, which originated at the Swiss Cabaret Voltaire in 1916, and the can-can dance, first performed at the iconic Moulin Rouge. In the 1980s, Dark Cabaret emerged, fusing cabaret’s theatrical flair with the brooding sound of gothic rock.


I talked a bit about the composer Kurt Julian Weill back on entry 332.

Here's a track from Lost in the Stars: The Music of Kurt Weill, a 1985 compilation of some of Weill's music by various performers.
https://youtu.be/SSl50ibRItc

Several songs on this album originate from Weill's works that are quintessential to the cabaret genre. 

Other tracks, such as "September Song" and "Lost in the Stars", while not strictly cabaret, showcase Weill's versatility and have been embraced by cabaret performers over the years.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SSl50ibRItc
Lost In The Stars

Lost In The Stars · Carla Bley · Phil Woods

Lost In The Stars: The Music Of Kurt Weill



Producer: Hal Willner
Producer: Paul M. Young
Author: Maxwell Anderson
Composer: Kurt Weill
