---
layout: post
title: "1578:"
date: 2025-04-13
---

Here's a brief breakdown of one of my favorite classical pieces, Verklärte Nacht, Arnold Schönberg's (mentioned on rec 789)
https://youtu.be/5Hgq0zyXkIo

Verklärte Nacht was controversial at its 1902 premiere due to its advanced chromatic harmony and a specific "nonexistent" chord that led to its rejection by the Vienna Music Society. Some also objected to the use of Dehmel's poem, which touched on themes like premarital sex, but despite the backlash, Schoenberg was praised for his inventiveness, and Dehmel himself admired the musical interpretation.

Here's the poem the piece is based on:
Two people are walking through a bare, cold wood;
the Moon keeps pace with them and draws their gaze.
The Moon moves along above tall oak trees,
there is no wisp of cloud to obscure the radiance
to which the black, jagged tips reach up.
A woman's voice speaks:

"I am carrying a child, and not by you.
I am walking here with you in a state of sin.
I have offended grievously against myself.
I despaired of happiness,
and yet I still felt a grievous longing
for life's fullness, for a mother's joys
and duties; and so I sinned,
and so I yielded, shuddering, my sex
to the embrace of a stranger,
and even thought myself blessed.
Now life has taken its revenge,
and I have met you, met you."

She walks on, stumbling.
She looks up; the Moon keeps pace.
Her dark gaze drowns in light.
A man's voice speaks:

"Do not let the child you have conceived
be a burden on your soul.
Look, how brightly the universe shines!
Splendour falls on everything around,
you are voyaging with me on a cold sea,
but there is the glow of an inner warmth
from you in me, from me in you.
That warmth will transfigure the stranger's child,
and you bear it me, begot by me.
You have transfused me with splendour,
you have made a child of me."

He puts an arm about her strong hips.
Their breath embraces in the air.
Two people walk on through the high, bright night.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Hgq0zyXkIo
Listening Guide: Transfigured Night by Arnold Schoenberg
Join Manchester Collective's Adam Szabo for an exploration of Arnold Schoenberg's transcendent masterpiece – from the claustrophobic confessions that open the work through to the gleaming sound-world of the second half.

Listen to 'Transfigured Night' here: manchestercollective.bandcamp.com/album/the-centre-is-everywhere

Featured on Manchest...
