---
layout: post
title: "1564:"
date: 2025-03-30
---

Happy hardcore is a high-energy subgenre of Hardcore EDM that emerged in the 1990s. As Breakbeat Hardcore splintered into darker, more complex styles like Darkside and Jungle, artists such as Slipmatt, Dougal, and Sunshine Productions pushed the genre in a more melodic, euphoric direction. They increased the tempo and emphasized upbeat elements like fast 4/4 rhythms, catchy vocals, piano riffs, and spacey effects—giving rise to what was sometimes called "4-beat." This sound developed a strong following in the UK, especially outside London.

As the genre grew, it began to blend with European hardcore styles like Gabber, leading to offshoots such as Scottish Bouncy Techno. Over time, the music leaned more into pounding four-on-the-floor beats, moving away from breakbeats. Popular compilations like Bonkers showcased its evolution, with influences from Eurodance and harder Trance styles. By the early 2000s, this progression led to the birth of UK Hardcore. Despite changes in style, happy hardcore has stayed upbeat and energetic—true to its name. While no longer mainstream, it continues to thrive in underground scenes and has inspired dedicated labels around the world. 

Here's Herzfrequenz, a 1996 album by Jasmin Wagner, aka Blümchen, a German pop and dance music singer
https://youtu.be/RCA0Utuom-0

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RCA0Utuom-0
Blümchen – Herzfrequenz - Teljes album - 1996
01. Intro (Herz An Herz)  00:00
02. Herz an Herz (Herz in der Luft Radio Mix) 04:54
03. Rosa Wolke  08:40
04. Komm auf meinen Stern  14:13
05. Kleiner Satellit (Langer Piiep Mix)  19:11
06. Liebe Liebe  24:29
07. Herzen haben Flugel  29:33
08. Du und Ich  36:04
09. Odyssee in 3-D  41:15
10. Boomerang  46:08
11. Outro (Herz an Herz)  51:14
12. Kl...
