---
layout: post
title: "1604:"
date: 2025-05-09
---

The previous track was part of the Straight edge movement that emerged from the early 1980s Washington, D.C. Hardcore Punk scene, promoting abstinence from alcohol, tobacco, and drugs. Some adherents also avoid casual sex, caffeine, and promote veganism and animal rights. The term comes from Minor Threat's 1981 song “Straight Edge.” The movement is symbolized by an X, often marked on hands or tattooed.

Early bands include 7Seconds, The Teen Idles, and SS Decontrol. The mid-1980s saw the rise of Youth Crew, a New York-based submovement emphasizing unity and positivity, with bands like Youth of Today and Gorilla Biscuits. Other offshoots included Krishnacore (e.g., Shelter) with spiritual themes, and Hardline, a more militant, eco-vegan branch. International scenes also emerged, such as H8000 in Belgium and Umeå Hardcore in Sweden.

Straight edge influenced the development of Metalcore in the 1990s, with bands like Earth Crisis. While the movement declined in popularity by the late '90s, it continues through modern bands like Have Heart and One Step Closer.

Here's another album influenced by the movement, War by Sentence, from 2002
https://youtu.be/0CK2CyG6HEA

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0CK2CyG6HEA
Sentence - War (Full Album) - 2002
Band: Sentence
Album: War
Year: 2002
Country: Italy

01. War Begins
02. To React
03. Bloody September
04. One Life Taken
05. Words Of Silence
06. Another Strife
07. The Shy Kiss Of Destruction 
08. Shades Of Salvation
09. Spell Of Death
