---
layout: post
title: "1508:"
date: 2025-02-02
---

Te Deum, composed by Estonian-born Arvo Pärt (mentioned on 998) in 1984, is a setting of the Latin Te Deum text, a hymn attributed to Saints Ambrose, Augustine, and Hilary. Pärt's Te Deum plays an important role in Christian services, though its unique instrumentation makes it unsuitable for use in the Orthodox Church.

 It was recorded in 1993 by the Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir and Tallinn Chamber Orchestra under Tõnu Kaljuste. The piece, lasting about thirty minutes, is an example of Pärt's tintinnabuli compositional style.
https://youtu.be/jNxbT0MESTY

My favorite modern choral work.

Pärt’s tintinnabuli technique, often described as minimalistic, involves harmonies that deviate from traditional Western classical music. In Te Deum, the music is built around a D triad, with two main voices: the M-voice, carrying the melody, and the T-voice, following the melody with notes from the triad. The work is scored for three choirs—women’s, men’s, and mixed choirs—along with prepared piano, divisi strings, and wind harp. The piano requires four pitches to be prepared with metal screws and calls for a large, amplified concert grand. The wind harp functions as a drone, adding to the piece’s distinct sound. Pärt described the Te Deum text as evoking "immutable truths," aiming to create a serene, infinite mood through the music.

Te Deum shares more similarities with early Christian music than with recent choral works, as its structure mirrors that of Renaissance polyphonic masses, where a chant is followed by its elaboration in multiple voices. The wind harp drone in the piece resembles the ison, or drone voice, found in Byzantine chant, which featured a melody and a constant drone representing an unchanging spiritual reality. Hillier compares this drone to the "spiritual force" uniting the piece and providing its foundation.

The Te Deum hymn begins "Te Deum laudamus", “We praise Thee, O God,” sung at matins or on special occasions such as a thanksgiving.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jNxbT0MESTY
Arvo Pärt - Te Deum
