---
layout: post
title: "1577:"
date: 2025-04-12
---

Here's another dramatic performance I like. This one is by Orson Welles, playing Sir John Falstaff from the plays Henry IV, Part 1 and Part 2. This performance is of an excerpt of Henry IV, Part 2 in which Falstaff presents a rhetorical celebration or mock-serious encomium, where the speaker humorously glorifies wine as the key to intelligence, bravery, and manhood. In this case, Falstaff is jokingly acting like wine is the most important and noble thing in the world, making it sound grand and heroic - but he’s also kind of being sincere because he really loves wine.

The actual performance starts at 3:50. It's neat seeing him speaking to the audience as himself before the switch, though.
https://youtu.be/VJ6v7GHYDbM
The song introducing him is Greensleeves, a traditional English folk song, one of the first known references to which may be dated back to the 16th century.

Welles is considered to be among the greatest and most influential filmmakers of all time, and among the greatest Hollywood actors of all time. His work as Falstaff is widely regarded as one of his most profound and personal performances, and Welles considered Falstaff "the most difficult part I ever played in my life" and referred to him as "Shakespeare's greatest creation." 

Welles masterfully balances Falstaff's boisterous humor with a deep sense of vulnerability. His performance captures the character's exuberant wit and zest for life, while also revealing the underlying sadness of a man facing the loss of friendship and the passage of time.

Critics have noted the parallels between Welles and Falstaff, both being larger-than-life figures who experienced betrayal and decline. Roger Ebert observed that Welles was "born to play Falstaff"

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VJ6v7GHYDbM
Orson Welles   Falstaff   Dean Martin Show
Description
