---
layout: post
title: "1092:"
date: 2023-12-14
---

Operetta is a type of sung stage entertainment that falls somewhere between Opera and spoken theatre stylistically. It is distinguished by being a satirical and/or humorous version of light opera interspersed with spoken dialogues, usually centered around romantic plots and dancing scenes.

Operettas originated in the early 18th century, growing out of different light opera forms throughout Europe, like Italian operatic comedies, English Ballad Opera and French vaudevilles. However, it wasn't until the 19th century that the modern day usage of the term "operetta" started to designate comedic operatic stage shows specifically. Jacques Offenbach was a key figure in the popularization of operettas, with pieces like Orphée aux enfers and La belle Hélène being influential works for the genre.

With works like The Mikado and H.M.S. Pinafore, the British duo Gilbert & Sullivan, influenced by Offenbach, carried their highly satirical take on the genre to great popularity in England and later to an international degree. The Viennese composer Johann Strauss on the other hand, as exemplified by his Die Fledermaus, placed a stronger and influential focus on the romantic and melodic aspects of the genre.

Here's a song from La gatta Cenerentola by Compagnia il Cerchio, Roberto De Simone & Nuova Compagnia di Canto Popolare, released 1976\.  
[https://youtu.be/V8dhLSssQLk](https://youtu.be/V8dhLSssQLk)

Around the turn of the 20th century, the popularity of operettas started to wane in Europe but still had a major following in the United States. Franz Lehár's Die lustige Witwe (translated to "The Merry Widow") for instance was particularly enjoyed on the Broadway scenes. The popularizations of Jazz and musical comedies around the 1930s eventually marked the end of the American interest in European operettas.
