---
layout: post
title: "1078:"
date: 2023-11-30
---

Bubblegum bass is an EDM genre from the early 2010s, rooted in a countercultural approach to popular music, breaking down high-low culture divisions. Artists consciously adopt Pop music cliches, elevating them through unconventional expressions and alienated musical experiments. This involves sampling pop pieces and collaborating with independent vocalists. Re-imagining pop music, the genre amplifies cuteness, femininity, and romance in chaotic sonic environments, utilizing pitched-up vocals, "plastic"-sounding synths, and syncopated rhythms.

Originating in the underground electronica scene of the early 2010s, particularly linked with UK Bass, Deconstructed Club, and British Wonky, PC music producers incorporate influences from mainstream EDM trends like Electro House, Trap, and Future Bass. 2000s Trance music, Euro-Trance, Vocal Trance, Euro House, Eurodance, and Balearic Beat contribute to the genre's diverse sound palette. Tracks range from glitchy productions re-contextualizing pop cliches to saccharine pop ballads and Pop Rap tracks satirizing Hip Hop with bombastic production.

Visual elements are a central element. LGBTQ expression and themes of feminism, self-expression, and post-internet anxiety contribute to the genre's aesthetic. PC music's distinct style, often called "PC music," spread beyond the label, though other competing terms, like "bubblegum bass" (popularized by RYM) would become more common later. Artists like SOPHIE, GFOTY, and A.G. Cook brought the genre to EDM circles in the mid-2010s, influencing Electropop/Synthpop musicians like Charli XCX.

Here's OIL OF EVERY PEARL'S UN-INSIDES, a 2018 album by SOPHIE.  
[https://youtu.be/AC8h4HnWyys?t=229](https://youtu.be/AC8h4HnWyys?t=229)

The Fader eulogized Sophie Xeon as a "pioneering Scottish artist whose vibrant electronic productions expanded modern pop music's scope," while Pitchfork credited Sophie's influential work with "molding electronic music into bracingly original avant-garde pop"
