---
layout: post
title: "1003:"
date: 2023-09-16
---

Art song encompasses many vocal genres within the tradition of Western Classical Music. Though diverse in form, art song is typically defined as music set to Poetry (or in the case of a vocalise, wordless vocals) performed by a lone vocalist with minimal accompaniment, often a piano, for concert recital with artistic aspirations and technical demands requiring trained musicians. Art song is composed in one of four styles: Strophic, with stanzas sung to repeated melodies, varying strophic, with slight melodic deviations between stanzas, through-composed, with stanzas sung to different music throughout, or song cycle, multiple songs sung in sequence to an overarching theme. Religious songs (e.g., Hymns), non-Western songs (e.g., Heikyoku), dramatic songs (e.g., Opera), and folk or popular songs are not considered art song. However, there are numerous exceptions to all of the above standards, and it can be difficult to pin down what defines art song beyond it being Western and classical.

The tradition of Western sung poetry is ancient, and it's debatable at what point art song emerged as a distinct genre. Medieval Lyric Poetry shares many qualities of what is now known as art song and may be considered an antecedent. Renaissance Music styles like the air de cour, frottola, and lute song helped expand the scope of song, with composers like John Dowland writing many seminal works.

Here's a performance of John Dowland's Flow my tears (Lachrimae), a lute song originally composed as an instrumental under the name "Lachrimae pavane" in 1596, with lyrics added later.  
[John Dowland: Flow my tears (Lachrimae); Phoebe Jevtovic Rosquist, soprano & David Tayler, lute](https://youtu.be/u3clX2CJqzs)

In Romanticism, art song flourished, with mélodie and especially Lied setting the standard for most art song to this day.
