---
layout: post
title: "1004:"
date: 2023-09-17
---

Lied

By far the most common and influential form of Art Song (to the point that the terms are often used interchangeably), Lied describes a predominately Germanic style that developed with the Romanticism of the 19th century. Lied is largely written for solo vocalist with piano accompaniment and emphasizes intimacy, emotional intensity, and subtle interplay between piano and voice. Two of the genre's most renowned composers are Franz Schubert and Robert Schumann, who established many of Lied's fundamentals and set to music the poems of numerous authors, such as Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Heinrich Heine.

Lied typically reflects Romanticism's lofty artistic ideals, with lyrics focused on fantasy, fairy tales, folklore, nature's beauty, and the pathetic fallacy, or psychological reflections on the emotions. Piano accompaniment is often rudimentary using basic chordal phrases that retain harmony and tempo in the left hand with brief yet recurring ostinatos in the right. Vocal structure is usually simple but takes advantage of crescendos and word painting to punctuate or highlight certain passages in the text through large interval leaps, thus creating a broader emotional spectrum.

As with most art song, Lied is divided into four styles: Strophic or ballad, varying strophic, through-composed, and song cycle.

Here's a performance of Vier letzte Lieder; Muttertändelei; Waldseligkeit; Zueignung; Freundliche Vision; Die heiligen drei Könige, composed by Richard Strauss / Hermann Hesse / Joseph von Eichendorff / Hermann von Gilm zu Rosenegg / Heinrich Heine. These are the final completed works of Richard Strauss. They were composed in 1948 when the composer was 84\. The singer is Dame Olga Maria Elisabeth Friederike Schwarzkopf, DBE, considered one of the greatest sopranos of the 20th century.  
[Schwarzkopf sings R.Strauss \- Four Last Songs : Frühling, September, Im Abendrot .. (Century’s rec.)](https://youtu.be/NQ4sHbFTFDo)
