---
layout: post
title: "1053:"
date: 2023-11-05
---

Revue had its roots in France, it was developed as a major musical theatre show at the end of the 19th century. In its original form Revue was called "review of the year" and it was based on musical numbers and sketches inspired by the most relevant events of the year, hence the name. Until the 1910s it was common to follow some kind of plot, Revue evolved eventually into a form of musical theatre where commonly there was little connection between the different shows.

In comparison to the related Music Hall the tickets were much more expensive, it mainly attracted middle to upper classes and therefore it was much more sophisticated, complex and elegant than Music-Hall, to the extent that in America revues were often nicknamed "spectacular musical productions". Revues were pioneered in America by The Ziegfeld Follies, a series of sumptuous revues inspired by the French 'Folies Bergères' that took place in New York from 1907 to 1931\. The revues served as springboard for many major composers, such as Irving Berlin or Richard Rodgers.

The Real Ambassadors is a jazz musical released in 1962 by Dave and Iola Brubeck, in collaboration with Louis Armstrong and his band. It includes Lambert, Hendricks & Ross (see rec 797\) and Carmen McRae. Less traditional, but still considered a Revue.  
https://youtu.be/cjyqdrhsweg

I've spoken about Hard Dance back on rec 645, but not much of the genres it developed out of. I'm not planning to cover all of them now, but I thought it would be a good time to get at least a couple done, maybe just Trance and some of its subgenres (there's a ton of them, so we'll see how many I do).
