---
layout: post
title: "1063:"
date: 2023-11-15
---

Forest Psytrance

Forest psytrance is an earthy and complex subgenre of Psytrance which emerged in northern European countries in the late 1990s. While it usually features a similar dark atmosphere to that of Dark Psytrance, forest psytrance uses more organic sonorities and more pronounced resonance compared to it. It is also defined by swarming and teeming effects as well as natural samples such as animal calls, bird chirps, rustling leaves and flowing water in order to mimick the ambience of a forest. Tribal percussions including drums, shakers and rattles are another common feature of the genre and add to its earthy nature. The end result is rich and textured. Forest psytrance usually falls within a tempo range of 140 to 160 BPM and is straightforward in nature with repetitive melodies and very little breakdowns, creating a hypnotic atmosphere. Most tracks are composed in minor scales in order to add to the eeriness and sense of mystery of this genre, although a minority of tracks aim for an exalting and joyful ambience instead.

Three distinguishable trends of forest psytrance exist. The first one emerged in the late 1990s and was inspired by Goa Trance and Industrial music and used an Experimental approach and a chaotic aesthetic. This strand of forest psytrance became associated with the Sweden-based label Schlabbaduerst ReKkords in the early 2000s. The second one was popularized in 2005 with Derango's Tumult and shares more similarities with dark psytrance while focusing on sound effects rather than on melodies. The last one is named swamp psytrance and is influenced by Downtempo. It is experimental and slower than other forms of forest psytrance, with tempos rarely exceeding 135 BPM.

Here's Derango's 2005 album Tumult  
[https://youtu.be/afKTiwic2wk](https://youtu.be/afKTiwic2wk)

The album is also sometimes categorized as Suomisaundi
