---
layout: post
title: "1009:"
date: 2023-09-22
---

Data sonification refers to the concept of converting various types of data into sound and subsequently creating soundscapes and music with that. The process of "sonification" has numerous applications, but it is particularly useful in scientific domains, such as astronomy. Wavelength data from cosmic objects such as X-rays and electromagnetic vibrations have to be transformed into audible soundwaves since sound itself cannot travel or be caught in space's vacuum.

Data sonification has also its means as illustrative art by conveying a certain message via its information. This type of data presentation has several advantages, including making the meaning of data sets more accessible and thus allowing it to be utilized to reinforce a specific narrative. A good example of this is the use of Electronic beeping to represent a certain quantity of objects or events changing over time, such as the amount of deaths per minute. This accessibility of information makes it also a prime technique for art display and therefore can be a component in Sound Art and sound installations.

Hugo Benioff, a seismologist, is one of the most important pioneers in the field of audio visualization. Being both a scientist and a music instrument enthusiast, he united the two fields by creating the seismograph and developing a technique to capture seismic activity and make it audible to the human ear in the 1930s. One of the most fundamental and important forms of sonification is "audification," which involves imprinting data on magnetic tape and speeding it up until audible sound is produced.

Here's a track from Jerobeam Fenderson's 2016 audiovisual album Oscilloscope Music.  
[https://youtu.be/XziuEdpVUe0](https://youtu.be/XziuEdpVUe0)  
"What you see is what you hear: The audio signal is fed directly into the oscilloscope, where vector graphics are drawn with sound."
