---
layout: post
title: "1077:"
date: 2023-11-29
---

Since I've never described the genre...

Electropop is a form of Electronic Pop music that emerged in the 2000s. Electropop is characterized by dense, layered, and compressed production, usually coupled with a distinct fuzzy and "warm" low-frequency synthesizer style. Electropop's production is derived from and inspired to varying degrees by Electronic Dance Music genres like Electro House, as well as by Electroclash and Synthpop. Despite borrowing major elements from synthpop, the two differ in a number of major ways: electropop's crisp and crunchy production traits are often contrasted with synthpop's reliance on more traditional 1980s production methods; electropop's crackly, warm, and even distorted synth textures are contrasted with synthpop's more dreamy, sparser space-like synth sounds, which are often played live on a synthesizer and accompanied by live instruments, contrasting with electropop's focus on fully digital production.

Electropop has its origins in a number of previous scenes: early 2000s artists who were influenced by electroclash traded some of the genre's gritty, harsh production and vocals for more radio-ready and catchy pop songwriting; EDM-based artists and producers like The Knife began to write pop music that borrowed major elements from popular EDM genres of the time. The genre was also inspired to a lesser extent by the Japanese technopop genre of artists like Yellow Magic Orchestra (rec 632), which was also named electropop.

Here's a track from Silent Shout, a 2006 album by The Knife.  
[https://youtu.be/mWzZnxPAQhs](https://youtu.be/mWzZnxPAQhs)

電子悲劇/\~ENOLA (Electronic Tragedy/\~ENOLA) is a 1997 Electropop album by P-Model, Susumu Hirasawa's old band from 1979 to 2000\. I talked about his solo continuation of the group (Kaku P-Model) on rec 261\. Here's the first track off that album.  
[https://youtu.be/e6\_rz7ddxNI](https://youtu.be/e6_rz7ddxNI)
