---
layout: post
title: "1107:"
date: 2023-12-29
---

Electro House

Electro house, a subgenre of House, emerged in the early 2000s, drawing inspiration from Electroclash, Tech House, Funky House, and French House. Influenced by 1980s music like Electro, Electro-Disco, Synthpop, and Acid House, its analog sound became prominent. Pioneered by Mr. Oizo's "Flat Beat" and later popularized by Benny Benassi's "Satisfaction," the genre featured warm basslines, a compressed drum beat at 130 BPM, high-pitched synthesizers, and clipped vocal samples.

In the mid-2000s, electro house gained popularity in Europe, with David Guetta, Fedde Le Grand, Mylo, Tiga, and Boys Noize as notable producers. Justice, MSTRKRFT, and The Presets exemplified the French Electro subgenre, influencing New Rave and Dance-Punk. Electro house's impact extended to Electropop, Europop, electro dance, Tecktonik, Progressive House, Trance, Minimal Techno, and Synthwave.

By the late 2000s, electro house spawned subgenres like Fidget House and Complextro. Dutch House influenced genres like Moombahton and Melbourne Bounce. Electro house persisted with artists like Dada Life, Zedd, and deadmau5. "Future techno," blending electro house with Acid Techno, Industrial Techno, and EBM, paved the way for Midtempo Bass.

In the mid-2010s, electro house declined with the overall EDM slowdown and the rise of Bass House. Despite this, the late 2010s and early 2020s witnessed its evolution. STMPD RCRDS artists like TV Noise and Loopers introduced a maximalist style, while mau5trap artists No Mana and Eddie aimed to revive its old-school, minimalistic sound, incorporating elements of Acid Techno and Industrial Techno. The genre continued to innovate, fusing with new EDM styles like Future Bounce and Colour Bass.

Justice's 2007 album † is probably the best known Electro House work. Here are a couple tracks off that album  
[https://youtu.be/VKzWLUQizz8](https://youtu.be/VKzWLUQizz8)  
[https://youtu.be/sy1dYFGkPUE](https://youtu.be/sy1dYFGkPUE)
