---
layout: post
title: "1016:"
date: 2023-09-29
---

French Guiana is an overseas department of France on the northeast coast of South America, composed mainly of tropical rainforest. The official language is standard French, but each ethnic community has its own language, of which French Guianese Creole, a French-based creole language, is the most widely spoken.

Kasékò is a musical genre from French Guiana. It also designates the drums as well as the dance of this musical genre. Kasékò is an autogenic music based on the traditional dances of African slaves and mixed with European and Amerindian cultural contributions, also fusion European and American styles. Here's a short Kasékò song and performance.  
[https://youtu.be/KtHr5BSU2bs](https://youtu.be/KtHr5BSU2bs)

Wayãpi are an indigenous people living in the Amazon within the borders of Brazil and French Guiana. This album, Wayãpi Guyane, released 1980, is a documentation of many of their songs and calls. It's a very authentic and enriching experience.  
[https://youtu.be/3MsorxABelA?t=183](https://youtu.be/3MsorxABelA?t=183)  
Some of the particularly interesting sounds and instruments on this album include bone flutes, nasal and regular bamboo flutes, a scraped tortoise shell, and various animal calls.

There's also Carnival in French Guiana, a major event and the longest carnival in the world. The participants – French, Creole, Brazilian and Chinese people – dress in vibrant costumes and bring their own cultures to the parades. I wasn't able to find any good musical recordings. Maybe another time.

1017  
Guyana, a country on South America’s North Atlantic coast, is defined by its dense rainforest. English-speaking, with cricket and calypso music, it's culturally connected to the Caribbean region.

The current Guyanese culture began to develop when immigrants (some of them forced, others voluntary) adapted and converged with the dominant British culture. Slavery eradicated much of the distinction between differing African cultures as they were supplanted by British culture, which encouraged the adoption of Christianity and the values of British colonists; this laid the foundations of today's Afro-Guyanese culture. Arriving later and under somewhat more favourable circumstances, Indian immigrants were subjected to less assimilation, and they preserved more aspects of Indian culture, such as religion, cuisine, music, festivals, and clothing.

In marginalized groups, laws were enacted to suppress music, as it was connected to revolts. Nonetheless, the music of Guyana encompasses a range of musical styles and genres that draw from various influences including: Indian, Latino-Hispanic, European, African, Chinese, and Amerindian music.

In recent decades, dub and reggae have been very popular in Guyana. Here's 1 1982 Dub album by Mad Professor,  
Dub Me Crazy\!\!  
[https://youtu.be/coMey7OztKw](https://youtu.be/coMey7OztKw)  
Atmospheric stuff.
