---
layout: post
title: "1002:"
date: 2023-09-15
---

Medieval Lyric Poetry

The term medieval lyric poetry refers to several styles from Medieval Europe, roughly from the 11th to the 14th century. The original and most notable style is that of the troubadours (trobadors and trobairitz) of southern France, poet-composers who wrote in Old Occitan. The troubadours are credited with originating the medieval European literary trope of "courtly love".

The first troubadour with surviving documented work was Guillaume de Poitiers, Duke of Aquitaine (1071-1126). The phenomenon reached its height between the years of 1170 and 1213, which is often referred to as the "classical period" of troubadours. After this period, the troubadour phenomenon spread to Aragon, Castile, Navarre and Italy, due partly to its prestige, and partly to the emigration of troubadours caused by the French kingdom's Albigensian Crusade against Catharism, which caused devastation across southern France. By 1323, when the Consistori del Gay Saber was formed in Toulouse specifically in an attempt to revive troubadour poetry, it was considered to be in decline, and it died out around 1348 in the time of the Black Death.

The work of the troubadours has later been classified by three main composition styles: trobar leu, trobar ric, and trobar clus, with the former being the most accessible, and the latter very ornate, complex and characterised by perceived obscurity and incomprehensibility.

Troubadours visited the courts of Castile, Leon and Portugal in the late 12th century. The trovadorismo/trobadorismo movement in western Iberia was largely based in national popular poetry of Galicia and Portugal.

The Cantigas de Santa Maria ("Canticles of Holy Mary") are 420 poems with musical notation, written in the medieval Galician-Portuguese language during the reign of Alfonso X of Castile El Sabio (1221–1284). Here's Ensemble Unicorn's performance of the Cantigas de Santa Maria.  
[Cantigas De Santa Maria \- Ensemble Unicorn](https://youtu.be/iCpW8yQZrBA)
