---
layout: post
title: "1072:"
date: 2023-11-24
---

Ambient trance

Ambient trance transfers the multilayered harmonic and arpeggiated synthesizer sound of Trance to a Downtempo and Ambient context. It emerged in the mid-1990s mainly in the form of Chillout remixes of trance tracks, adopting its melodies into slow, downtempo beats, or even leaving drums out completely.

The genre has an organic sound, often using many real instruments such as strings and pianos. Sonically, it's usually the closest to light sub-genres Ibiza Trance and Dream Trance. The genre is typically released on compilations such as Angels: Chill Trance Essentials and Armada Lounge. That being said, it also consists of original tracks and albums, such as L.S.G.'s Into Deep.

Ambient trance to some degree paved the way for and is highly related to Psybient, which mixes the qualities of Psytrance into a similar context. The terms are sometimes used interchangeably, with many artists of the genre, such as Carbon Based Lifeforms (see rec 169\) and Solar Fields, being described as both. Ambient trance itself would continue into the 2010s with some works like Aly & Fila's The Chill Out in line with the genre, as well as artists like Courtesy in the 2020s.

Some of the most popular remixes include The Thrillseekers's remix of "Saltwater", and Michael Woods remixes of "Silence".  
[https://youtu.be/VVnhGZRo5OM](https://youtu.be/VVnhGZRo5OM) (2012)  
[https://youtu.be/Hvfqrf9nZC0](https://youtu.be/Hvfqrf9nZC0) (2008)

Starting in the late 2010s, certain producers (mostly of Bubblegum Bass backgrounds) have also started to mix ambient qualities with trance-influenced 2010s EDM, occasionally bearing some similarities to ambient trance, but regardless becoming an unrelated, separate trend that's sonically different from it.

For more on the twin genre psybient (a form of Chillout music stemming from the trend of Psytrance and Goa Trance artists composing slower and more relaxed tracks that emphasized atmosphere over rhythm), just listen to Carbon Based Lifeforms. They're the greatest group of the genre imo
