---
layout: post
title: "1099:"
date: 2023-12-21
---

Diva House

Diva house emerged in the early 1990s, gaining popularity in gay clubs by the mid-1990s. It is characterized by dominant female vocals, piano stabs, and energetic four-on-the-floor rhythms. Rooted in early house, Disco, and Garage House, it incorporates major Soul vocal elements, often sampling soul, Gospel, and Show Tunes from stars like Bette Midler. Artists like Crystal Waters, Robin S, Ultra Naté, Barbara Tucker, and Cece Peniston played crucial roles in shaping the genre.

Diva house, also known as "handbag house," became a cornerstone of mid-1990s gay dance culture, focusing on themes of love, acceptance, and liberty. The term "handbag house," originally derogatory, was embraced by the LGBT community as an expression of camp. Besides its presence in gay clubs, diva house gained mainstream appeal, crossing over with genres like Euro House and Dance-Pop. Hits like "Show Me Love" extended its influence beyond LGBT communities, inspiring artists like Madonna.

As diva house waned in popularity in the late 1990s and early 2000s, styles like Deep House and Nu-Disco took its place. However, it continued to influence later artists, including Disclosure and Duke Dumont. Diva house remixes of contemporary Pop and Contemporary R\&B hits remain popular among producers, showcasing its enduring impact on the music scene.

Here's a track from Black Girl Magic, a 2022 album by Honey Dijon.  
[https://youtu.be/Cfy\_7IIzbcY](https://youtu.be/Cfy_7IIzbcY)
