---
layout: post
title: "1006:"
date: 2023-09-19
---

Jazz poetry emerged during the 1920s as a form of poetry incorporating the style and the rhythms of Jazz, which simultaneously began to expand amongst the African-American communities of the US. The earliest so-called jazz poets, such as Carl Sandburg, only included jazz in their poetry as a thematic element, predating the first wave of authentic jazz poetry in which authors such as Langston Hughes embraced the musical aspects of jazz, especially its rhythm and repetition. Hughes' first book, The Weary Blues is considered the first collection of genuine jazz poems.

The genre gained great popularity during the Harlem Renaissance spanning the 1920s and 1930s, as many poets merged poetry and jazz continuing the trend started by Langston Hughes. This movement was revived during the 1950 by the poets of the beat generation, who in many cases included jazz poetry as part of their characteristic Beat Poetry. This heterogeneous group of poets included Amiri Baraka, Jack Kerouac and Sterling Brown.

During later decades, a third wave of jazz poetry was spearheaded by Gil Scott-Heron and Jayne Cortez with different approaches. While the former included jazz elements as a mere artistic device used to evoke his Afro-American origins, the latter focused her poetry on the melodic patters and cadences of jazz. Scott-Heron's work preceded the rise of Hip Hop, amongst whose derivative forms is Jazz Rap, which encompasses many formal aspects of poetry jazz, and renders them with modern hip hop production methods. Nevertheless, jazz poetry continued to be cultivated, along with the many other branches of contemporary poetry, during the past few decades.

Here's a track from Irreversible Entanglements, the 2017 self-titled album from American Free Jazz/Jazz Poetry group Irreversible Entanglements.  
[Irreversible Entanglements \- Chicago To Texas (Official Audio)](https://youtu.be/1QuD_h8tnLg)

Visceral and passionate words and messages. Moor Mother's vocals fit seamlessly with the instrumentation, and the two complement each other without obstruction. Sometimes listenability is sacrificed in favor of commentary in music like this, but that wasn't the case here.
