---
layout: post
title: "1058:"
date: 2023-11-10
---

Psytrance

Psytrance is a subgenre of Trance. Developed from the Goa Trance movement and having a big Acid Trance influence, it is characterized by a more psychedelic feel (hence the name), an energetic sound around 140-150 BPM, pounding bass riffs (mostly 303/acid), and modulations. Most of the time psytrance has a "layered" structure, which mostly happens each 8 bars, adding or subtracting elements from the song's mix. It is also known for some of its songs to have long runtimes (over 6 minutes).

The genre's early impact blossomed in popularity in various parts of the world, with most acts being from Europe (UK's Hallucinogen), Israel (Infected Mushroom), North America and other parts. Psytrance festivals also began to grow in popularity and are mostly held in the mentioned regions, but are also pretty popular in Australia and South Africa.

Due to psytrance having a very recognizable style, a few subgenres and fusions spawned out from it, using the genre's aesthetic and sounds and mixing it with other genres. The Psybient movement is an example of that.

Da Budet is a 2009 album by Psykovsky. It takes from various subgenres of trance and psytrance.  
[https://youtu.be/EZH5ruUnqxo?t=442](https://youtu.be/EZH5ruUnqxo?t=442)  
Great production. Chaotic, dense, and immensely layered with tons of interesting samples. Really interesting to see just how much Psykovky is able to do with the relatively simple beats of Psytrance.
