---
layout: post
title: "1098:"
date: 2023-12-20
---

Tech House

Tech house originated in the mid-1990s in the UK as a DJing approach blending elements of house and Techno. It emerged in London's underground scene and parties, most notably The Wiggle and The End, and was partially born as a reaction to rave music going in Hardcore \[EDM\] direction and commercialized house trends like Diva House. Inspired by Detroit Techno and Chicago House, it gained prominence through Swag Records store, with pioneers like Eddie Richards, Terry Francis, and Nathan Coles.

Characterized by minimalistic melodies, bassline focus, and a constant groove in the 120-130 BPM range, tech house evolved in the late 1990s. Californian labels introduced a Tribal House-influenced strain, while Europe incorporated Progressive House and Minimal Techno, forming a "minimal" scene. Germany played a central role with artists like Stephan Bodzin and Oliver Huntemann. Electro House crossover in the 2000s resulted in popular tracks, with Mark Knight's Toolroom Records pushing tech house toward a "big room" direction.

In the early 2010s, a new generation of British producers, including Jamie Jones and Patrick Topping, along with labels like Hot Creations, globalized tech house. Modern production techniques enhanced basslines and drums for the festival setting. G-House emerged as a darker offshoot, while tracks like "Suga" showcased the genre's dancefloor-friendly side. New labels like Repopulate Mars and Solä, along with established players like Defected Records, embraced tech house. The genre's popularity surged with hits like "Losing It," continued by artists like Martin Ikin, Biscits, and John Summit in the late 2010s and early 2020s.

Here's Moments in Time by Vince Watson, from his 2002 album of the same name.  
[https://youtu.be/orwpYTa4bos](https://youtu.be/orwpYTa4bos)
