---
layout: post
title: "1093:"
date: 2023-12-15
---

Zarzuela, a distinctive Spanish dramatic genre, blends spoken scenes with operatic or popular sung passages, often incorporating regionalisms. Originating in 1657 with Juan Hidalgo's "El laurel de Apolo," its golden era in the mid-19th century showcased influential composers like Federico Chueca and Francisco Asenjo Barbieri, who embraced Madrid's casticismo. Three-act zarzuelas are known as género grande, featuring complex themes, while one-act género chico zarzuelas focus on local customs for a broader audience. The genre's evolution in the 20th century led to Spanish Revue, but composers like Federico Moreno Torroba sustained zarzuela's legacy. Though its popularity declined post-1950s, a resurgence since the 1970s hasn't birthed new zarzuelas.

Zarzuela barroca, from the Baroque era, embodies artistic diversity with spoken word, opera, instrumental interludes, dance, and satire. Originating in 1657, it fused Spanish theater and expanded musical elements, influenced by Italian opera. Hidalgo and Calderón de la Barca pioneered this form at the Palacio de la Zarzuela. In the 18th century, zarzuela paralleled Italian opera but later faded. It found new life in the mid-19th century, leading to the development of zarzuela grande.

From Acis y Galatea, a zarzuela by Antonio de Literes to a libretto by José de Cañizares. First performed in 1708\.  
[https://youtu.be/\_6Gy0Egu76E](https://youtu.be/_6Gy0Egu76E)

Later, Zarzuela grande, a Romantic-era sub-style, emerged in the mid-19th century. Typically composed in three acts, it features bright, tuneful music with extensive dialogue scenes, often comedic and romantic. Francisco Asenjo Barbieri's 1851 work, "Jugar con fuego," inaugurated this sub-style, infusing traditional Spanish music and Romantic aesthetics. Economic challenges in late 19th-century Spain shifted preference to the more economical género chico, impacting zarzuela grande's popularity. While it regained prominence in the early 20th century, overall zarzuela popularity declined after the Spanish Civil War.
