---
layout: post
title: "1045:"
date: 2023-10-28
---

Amazigh Music

The music of the Amazigh people, the indigenous people of Northwest Africa and certain parts of West Africa commonly called the "Berbers" (a term commonly dismissed as derogatory due to its origin in the Arabic word for "barbaric"). The music of the Amazigh people is varied and contains multiple different traditions, having developed separate or shared forms in different ethnic subgroups such as Tuareg Music, Chleuh music, Kabylian music, Chawi music, Riffis music, etc.

Traditional Amazigh music consists of two main categories. The first of them, the ahwash, refers to village dances and participative music, where the focus lies on the energy created by call-and-response group chants and hand drums (bendirs). The second category consists of professional music performed by a poet called the amydaz, backed by a small band of drums and flutes, who improvises lines that typically discuss social commentary. Those performances usually take place at markets, special gatherings and events like weddings. Typical Amazigh instruments include hand drums, tambourines, the ghaita (bagpipe), the rabab (a one-stringed instrument), the guembri (a three-stringed lute mainly associated with Gnawa).

With their presence attested since 3000 BC by Ancient Egyptians in North Africa, Amazigh culture has throughout the centuries absorbed influences from many other Mediterranean civilizations like the Phoenicians and the Carthaginians. The Islamic conquest in the 7th century brought Islamic Religious Music & Recitation as well as the widespread adoption of Arabic Music (and subsequently the diminished presence of Amazigh influence) in the region. Other notable influencers on Amazigh music, particularly in Morocco, include Andalusian Folk Music and Sephardic Music after the arrival of Moriscos and Jews from Spain following the Reconquista in the 16th century.

Here's Music of Morocco, from various artists.  
[https://youtu.be/I14WpqEj\_aM](https://youtu.be/I14WpqEj_aM)
