---
layout: post
title: "1104:"
date: 2023-12-26
---

Acid house, stemming from Chicago House in the mid-'80s, is defined by repetitive basslines from the Roland TB-303 synthesizer, creating the distinctive "squelching" sound paired with minimal four-on-the-floor beats, often from the Roland TR-808 drum machine.

In 1986, Sleezy D.'s "I've Lost Control" and 1987's "Acid Tracks" by Phuture marked early acid house tracks, influencing Chicago producers like Marshall Jefferson, DJ Pierre, Adonis, Lil Louis, and Tyree.

While initially underground in Chicago, acid house gained mainstream traction in the UK in the late '80s. DJs like Paul Oakenfold and Danny Rampling, inspired by Ibiza and ecstasy, launched club nights, leading to the "Second Summer of Love" in 1988\. The scene drew tabloid attention due to widespread drug use. British producers contributed to acid house's popularity, with tracks like Humanoid's "Stakker Humanoid," A Guy Called Gerald's "Voodoo Ray," and 808 State's "Pacific" reaching the UK top 20\.

By the early '90s, acid house's popularity waned, giving way to emerging styles like Breakbeat Hardcore, Belgian Techno, and Yorkshire's Bleep Techno. Acid house's influence persisted in genres like Acid Techno, Acid Trance, and Acidcore, with acid tracks remaining prevalent in Electronic Dance Music through the 2020s. The genre is acknowledged for transforming and popularizing UK club culture in the late '80s.

Here's an Acid Techno, Acid House album by Dream Dolphin, released 1996\. I mentioned an Acid Trance album by this artist back on 1057, but the genre and album are different so it's fine.  
[https://youtu.be/LMJrMRxSfNs?t=564](https://youtu.be/LMJrMRxSfNs?t=564)
