---
layout: post
title: "1027:"
date: 2023-10-10
---

Godspeed You\! Black Emperor is a Canadian post-rock band which originated in Montreal, Quebec in 1994\. Previously, (rec 473\) I talked about Thee Silver Mt. Zion Memorial Orchestra, a group founded by Godspeed You\! Black Emperor leader Efrim Menuck, joined by fellow members Sophie Trudeau and Thierry Amar. That project originated as a one-off \- a piece of music in memory of his beloved dog Wanda, who had died whilst he was away on tour with Godspeed.

"Lift Yr. Skinny Fists Like Antennas to Heaven\!" is the second studio album by the band released in 2000\. The album is a double LP, and it is divided into four lengthy tracks to a total of about 1.5 hours, with each track containing multiple movements.

Here's the first track, but the whole album is very worth a listen \- a must-listen for those interested in Post-Rock.  
[https://youtu.be/JMDmaUO4hno](https://youtu.be/JMDmaUO4hno)

The album is full of expansive and emotionally charged instrumental soundscapes characterized by orchestral and rock instrumentation including guitars, violins, and cellos. It incorporates field recordings, spoken word samples, and other audio textures, creating an immersive listening experience that is at times apocalyptic, funereal, and epic.

The album is ranked \#2 for 2000, \#19 overall on RYM.

Here's part of SinsOfArcadia's 2009 review of the album:  
[https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/773386035744866304/1163188245761380452/image.png?ex=653eaa78\&is=652c3578\&hm=d6ef4d4cf9867b492294447a7fe976bda79a7b6c0cf296f425d5853333745b51&](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/773386035744866304/1163188245761380452/image.png?ex=653eaa78&is=652c3578&hm=d6ef4d4cf9867b492294447a7fe976bda79a7b6c0cf296f425d5853333745b51&)
