---
layout: post
title: "1041:"
date: 2023-10-24
---

In 1984, EMI (At the time, one of the "Big Four" record companies) faced a budget challenge when one of its A\&R executives, notorious for exceeding budget limits on recording projects, experienced significant delays in producing singles for two artists. One of these artists was Tina Turner, who was on her way to achieving multi-platinum success in the 1980s with her album "Private Dancer." EMI was willing to overlook the budget overruns for Tina Turner's project. However, the other act, Saâda Bonaire, featuring two model-esque non-singers, Stefanie Lange and Claudia Hossfeld, had their lone single released, only to be immediately dropped from the label, never to be heard from again.

Saâda Bonaire was a unique conceptual band that revolved around the vocalists Stefanie Lange and Claudia Hossfeld. The group gained recognition for its fusion of music genres, including synth-pop, new wave, and world music. The distinctive characteristic of Saâda Bonaire's music lies in its intricate blend of global and multicultural influences. The project integrated elements from a wide range of musical traditions, incorporating rhythms and melodies from Africa, the Caribbean, and the Middle East into their work.

Here's one of their songs, from their 2013 archival release.  
[https://youtu.be/FtXkL8j8So0](https://youtu.be/FtXkL8j8So0)

Saâda Bonaire was the concoction of Ralph “Von” Richtoven, a Bremen club DJ who fancied himself a Svengali. His vision for the group included upwards of 20 musicians at any one time who didn’t speak the same language-much less played the same musical scale-backing up his non-musical fiancée, Stefanie Lange and her friend, both german women, clad in Bedouin wear. They had a striking and polarizing image.

Overall the group and their music are a weird yet interesting amalgamation of things, taking the form of a sort-of failed art project. The songs themselves are pretty good, but not exceptional

The next few recs will be on some Arabic and North African folk/classical/pop music genres.
