---
layout: post
title: "1089:"
date: 2023-12-11
---

Medieval Classical Music in the Spanish region featured Canto mozárabe, a Plainsong developed during the Visigoth era (6th to 11th centuries). Canto mozárabe or Mozarabic chant describes the Plainsong tradition of the Iberian Peninsula between the rule of the Christian Visigothic Kingdom and the Islamic Caliphates of Al-Andalus. The relative scarcity of surviving manuscripts detailing the particulars of Mozarabic chant makes it difficult to determine the musical qualities of the genre, and contemporary interpretations tend to be either speculative, embellished, or derived from efforts by post-Medieval scholars to synthesize known aspects of the Mozarabic tradition with the Roman rites of the Spanish Church. Like virtually all forms of Medieval chant, however, the Mozarabic style is strictly monophonic, largely A cappella, diatonic, modal in structure, free in rhythm, and principally written for male singers. Some sources claim that Mozarabic chant may also have contained musical elements borrowed from Jewish liturgy.

Mozarabic chant is believed to have developed from the cross-pollination of two separate styles of chant, one from Northern Spain and another from the southern end of the peninsula, and emerged some time during the Visigothic rule of Hispania. Following conquest of the region in the early 8th century by the Umayyad Caliphate, the genre would receive its namesake and continue under the auspices of the Mozarabs, that is, Christian communities living in Iberia during the period of Islamic rule. During Reconquista of the Iberian Peninsula by Christian European forces, Mozarabic chant would be suppressed and largely supplanted by Gregorian Chant of the Roman rite, though the Mozarabic style would remain in certain areas, especially Toledo.

Here's a short chant from Chant Mozarabe: Cathedrale de Tolède (XVe siècle), a 1995 album by Ensemble Organum / Marcel Pérès.  
[https://youtu.be/5jbmCF3PpbY](https://youtu.be/5jbmCF3PpbY)
