---
layout: post
title: "1010:"
date: 2023-09-23
---

Sound art is a contemporary interdisciplinary art form that emerged in the late 20th century, blending elements from experimental music and visual arts. Its primary medium and subject are sound. Typically presented as sound installations or sculptures, these works are self-playing and continuous, lacking a fixed beginning or end, and often don't require performers. Sound art focuses on spatial and conceptual sound design, incorporating non-musical sounds and embracing an experimental nature. It shares connections with sculpture and performance art and is commonly displayed in art galleries. Notable examples include Brian Eno's audiovisual installations.

Key characteristics of sound art include its non-linear timeline, allowing audiences to experience it at their own pace, as well as a strong emphasis on space, often incorporating field recordings or interacting with the installation space. Sound art pieces are not typically "performed" in a traditional musical sense, often relying on generative or looping elements, mechanical parts, or participant input to create unique auditory experiences.

Here's Alvin Lucier's 1981 album 1981  
[https://youtu.be/fAxHlLK3Oyk](https://youtu.be/fAxHlLK3Oyk)

On I Am Sitting in a Room, Alvin Lucier records himself speaking four sentences in which he explains the method and aim of the piece. In a nutshell, he is sitting in a room and recording the sound of his speaking voice. He will play this recording back into the room again and again taping each iteration until all semblance of his speech is destroyed.

Interesting concept. I just skipped through it. I can imagine the effect of listening through it in real time.

The next couple (maybe more) recs are on canzone d'autore.

Canzone d'autore or musica d'autore is an Italian Singer-Songwriter movement that was consolidated in the 1960s and early 1970s, initially being informed by the template of French Chanson and embedding it with uniquely Italian sensibilities. The concept of the singer/songwriter in Italy arose around the tail end of the 1950s, with scuole cantautorali (singer/songwriter scenes or schools) taking shape in the metropolitan areas of Genoa, Rome, Naples, Bologna and Milan. The Cantacronache group in Turin is often considered a direct precursor of canzone d'autore due to their revitalization of Italian Folk Music as well as the composition of new songs based on Italian traditions with the collaboration of writers such as Italo Calvino and Umberto Eco. Some popular singers of the 1950s who also composed their own music such as Gianni Meccia and Domenico Modugno are considered prototypical examples of the cantautorato italiano (Italian singer/songwriters) as well.

The 1960s saw the rise of cantautori under the influence of French chanteurs and a collective drive towards revitalizing the sounds of Italian folk music, marking the beginning of musica d'autore as a full-fledged movement. Many of their songs often chronicled tales of poverty, crime, and the low-life of urban centers, adopting a neorealist style. Around the middle of the decade, the second generation of musica d'autore was brought about, as well as a strain of strictly political canzone d'autore represented by cantautori like Ivan Della Mea.

The 1970s saw the further rise in political engagement of various cantautori due to the wide social, political and paramilitary unrest in Italy at the time. Musically, the influential takeover by North American troubadours such as Leonard Cohen, Bob Dylan and Paul Simon is clear, parallel to the influence of less well-known names such as Roy Harper and Nick Drake in progressive music circles.
