---
layout: post
title: "1105:"
date: 2023-12-27
---

Progressive House

Progressive house, originating in the UK in the early '90s alongside Trance, evolved into a distinct genre characterized by slick production, melodic plucks, lush electronic layering, and prominent use of reverb and delay. Unlike traditional house, it avoids sampling Soul and Funk elements. The genre's name stems from its progressions, gradually adding layers of synths and percussion. Over time, it became a more intricate and melodic subgenre with electronified, synthetic soundscapes, occasionally integrating vocals, live instrumentation, metallic synths, harder percussion, or minimalistic Techno and Tech House influences.

Early releases like "Not Forgotten" and "Go" marked the genre's emergence, led by pioneers such as Underworld, Leftfield, Gat Decor, Spooky, and React 2 Rhythm. Labels like Guerilla Records, Hooj Choons, and Soma played a crucial role. Sasha, particularly through collaborations with John Digweed, contributed significantly in the mid-'90s. Producers like Blue Amazon, Fluke, and BT also shaped the genre's development, reflecting diverse influences from Tribal House, Italo House, Ambient House, and New Age.

In the mid-2000s, a shift occurred towards a lighter, more relaxed form of the genre, seen in tracks like "Faxing Berlin" and labels like Silk Music. deadmau5's mau5trap and Eric Prydz's Pryda alias added experimental elements, drawing from Minimal Techno, Electro House, and IDM. Festival Progressive House, influenced by Uplifting Trance and Big Room House, gained popularity, overshadowing the original genre in the early-to-mid 2010s. However, progressive house resurged in the late 2010s, notably in its warmer form known as "melodic house," championed by artists like Lane 8 and Ben Böhmer.

Here's a track from Underworld's 1994 album Dubnobasswithmyheadman.  
[https://youtu.be/-JbGBLZghVE](https://youtu.be/-JbGBLZghVE)
