---
layout: post
title: "1074:"
date: 2023-11-26
---

Progressive Psytrance

Progressive psytrance (AKA Minimal Psytrance) is a style of electronic music, born in the early 2000s. Unlike most psytrance styles, this music has a cleaner production and slower tempo range. Progressive psytrance inherits influences from Minimal Techno, Tech House, Deep House, and '90s-early '00s Progressive House. Earlier works were darker and stripped-down, while in the mid-'00s onwards the music became lighter and more atmospheric. Pioneers include Atmos, Cosma, FREq, Neelix, Ovnimoon, Son Kite, Tegma, Ticon, and Vibrasphere.

Many psytrance artists and journalists simply call this style 'progressive trance' although it isn't the same genre.

Here's a 2007 album by Solar Fields, EarthShine. Also considered Psybient.  
[https://youtu.be/XgeXQjp1mCA](https://youtu.be/XgeXQjp1mCA)

Solar Fields also did the soundtrack for Mirror's Edge, which was very good. Maybe one of my favorite game soundtracks.  
https://youtu.be/Y05wiQQbFLU

I think I'll cut it off there for the trance series. Besides the few I did before starting this series (e.g., psybreak, hexd) there are a few subgenres I didn't cover because I didn't want to stray too far from classic trance roots (and so I avoided genres like Hands Up, Trancecore, etc), and others I didn't cover because of how unknown or relatively insignificant they are to trance as a whole (Twilight Psytrance, Twinkle Prog, Neo-Trance). I will cover those other ones at a later date, though.

I started on the trance series on rec 1054 for a clean 20 recs.

The previous long series lasted for the following:

Decades of Modern Chinese Pop History (Starts: Mandopop \- 633, Cantopop \- 647, Hokkein Pop \- 676): 17 recs

Reggae and its roots (Starts: 717): 26 recs

Eastern Music History and Tradition \- South Asian and Middle Eastern Focus (Starts: rec 747): 17 recs

Western Classical Music Tradition (Starts: 770): 22 recs

Brazilian Pop \- 20th Century focus (Starts 845): 23 recs

Punk (Starts: 900): 30 recs

Vaporwave (Starts: 954): 14 recs
