---
layout: post
title: "1086:"
date: 2023-12-08
---

Korean revolutionary opera is a Korean Music genre heavily influenced by Chinese Revolutionary Opera. Korean revolutionary operas are almost exclusively performed in North Korea and promote socialist and revolutionary messages in hopes of motivating the operas' audiences to follow the leads of the stories' heroes. North Korea's ruling Kim family is also glorified and even deified in Korean revolutionary opera. For these reasons, Korean revolutionary opera is widely understood as a form of propaganda. Like Chinese revolutionary opera, Korean revolutionary opera borrows heavily from Western Wagnerian Opera, but is also distinguished by its incorporation of elements from traditional Korean music. While Korean revolutionary opera's usage of pangchang, a chorus of off-stage vocalists describing the trials, tribulations, and thoughts experienced by the operas' heroes, is similar to the choruses of the theatre of Ancient Greek Music, traditional Korean instruments such as those featured in Pansori music are also common in Korean revolutionary opera. Korean revolutionary opera is usually very repetitive, to assist audiences in memorizing the songs and lyrics.

Korean revolutionary opera first emerged as a result of North Korean dictator Kim Il-sung's (The founder of North Korea and the father of Kim Jong-il) desire to premiere inspirational operas with messages similar to those supported by ally Mao Zedong in China. However, reflecting North Korea's occasional ideological breaks from its northern ally, Korean revolutionary opera regularly portrays and upholds traditional paranormal beliefs and depictions of romantic relationships, which were strictly prohibited in Chinese media during the Cultural Revolution. Kim Jong-il's 1974 treatise On the Art of Opera is widely regarded as sort of a mission statement for Korean revolutionary opera.

Here's a full recording of The Flower Girl, released 1972  
[https://youtu.be/YPZGEGDy6q8](https://youtu.be/YPZGEGDy6q8)

The film was shot 'under the guidance' of North Korean leader Kim Jong Il and it not only won the 'special prize', but it also won the 'special medal' in the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival of former Czech-Slovakia in 1972\.
