---
layout: post
title: "1054:"
date: 2023-11-06
---

Trance

Trance is an Electronic Dance Music genre defined by evolving, tension-building structures with rapid, minor arpeggios on top of a mechanical four-on-the-floor beat – altogether, evoking a euphoric and hypnotic state of "trance". It is also associated with drums from the TR-909 machine and a fast tempo in the range of 130-160 BPM. While the exact origins of trance aren't clear, they include Techno, EBM (particularly New Beat), and Acid House. Other genres were however attributed to inspiring the genre, such as Electro-Disco and Progressive Electronic. Despite properly emerging in the early 1990s in Germany, "What Time Is Love? (Pure Trance 1)" is sometimes considered the first trance track, followed by successful "The Age of Love". In the following years, trance would intensively develop into a broader umbrella of styles.

Here's What Time Is Love? (Pure Trance 1\)  
[https://youtu.be/kUs504Xdd8E](https://youtu.be/kUs504Xdd8E)

Here's The Age of Love  
[https://youtu.be/30eXKMfrVcw](https://youtu.be/30eXKMfrVcw)

The main initial form of trance emerged in the early 1990s from the forming techno scene in Berlin (originally centred around imported Detroit Techno. In the UK, trance was developing alongside Progressive House, leading to the birth of Progressive Trance. Another pivotal country was Belgium with Bonzai Records known for its Hard Trance sound and later artists like Push. Lighter, House-influenced forms Dream Trance and Ibiza Trance contributed to the fast rise of the genre as well. At a similar time, Goa Trance developed in India, which would evolve into a broad, distinct, Psychedelia-inspired strain known as Psytrance, that would spawn various sub-sub genres of trance music, particularly in Israel.
