---
layout: post
title: "1079:"
date: 2023-12-01
---

Hyperpop is a form of Electronic Pop music that emerged in the late 2010s and early 2020s. Hyperpop largely developed from PC Music's Bubblegum Bass sound, particularly the music of producers like A.G. Cook, SOPHIE, and GFOTY. Hyperpop borrows, exaggerates, and recontextualizes tropes derived from the popular Electropop and Dance-Pop of the late 2000s and 2010s, while also drawing influences from Electronic Dance Music and Hip Hop subgenres, and occasionally even from Alternative Rock and Indie Rock styles. The genre's name was likely popularized by Spotify's "Hyperpop" playlist, which began to gain moderate attention in late 2019 and 2020\. The playlist included artists such as 100 gecs, Charli XCX, and Dorian Electra, whose popularity helped expose more people to the sound. The genre gained mainstream attention in the early 2020s, even being criticized for being a "microgenre" or a buzzword, partially due to the term "hyperpop" increasingly being used for other affiliated music trends.

Hyperpop builds on the high-tech, hyper-real, and "plastic" aesthetic affiliated with bubblegum bass, as well as on its exaggerated femininity, often portrayed in an ironic, self-conscious or "camp" manner. The genre is strongly tied to and was primarily popularised by the LGBTQ+ community, leading it to be viewed as a safe space for the expression of sexuality and gender identity. As a result, these themes make their way into hyperpop artists' personal presentation, aesthetics, and lyrics. Other themes include more typical pop subjects like romance, parties, and braggadocio, as well as issues relating to mental health, particularly in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Here's Charli XCX's 2020 album How I'm Feeling Now.  
[https://youtu.be/8JmKWI44xD8](https://youtu.be/8JmKWI44xD8)  
Not a huge fan of this album for whatever reason. I don't dislike it, but it doesn't really tick my boxes for electronic pop I guess. People seem to love it though.

1079.5:  
hnm  
[https://youtu.be/DrA8AePkkmM](https://youtu.be/DrA8AePkkmM)
