---
layout: post
title: "1039:"
date: 2023-10-22
---

Doopee Time by Doopees was a 1995 Art Pop/Cocktail Nation Concept Album. Influences can be heard from Sound Collage, Brill Building, Doo-Wop, Space Age Pop, Plunderphonics, Radio Drama, Traditional Pop, Turntable Music, and Shibuya-kei styles.  
[https://youtu.be/33Z59RAoBu4](https://youtu.be/33Z59RAoBu4)

Here's an excerpt from Phil Cho's feature article about the album:  
"It’s Doopee Time\! Here’s an essential listen that’s been posted about quite a bit online, but remains something of an underrated cult classic from the CD age (no vinyl reissue yet?). Doopees was a conceptual project and fictional band formed by genius composer and steel drum master Yann Tomita to create the ultimate “cute” album to “keep you healthy, mind clear.” The group released just one full-length studio album on For Life Records.

For those unfamiliar with Yann Tomita aka Dr. Yann aka Dr. Domestic:

One of the great Japanese experimentalists, Yann Tomita was highly influential to Japan’s underground music scene in the late 1980s — 2000s. His earliest credits are on steel drums, an instrument he famously called “the closest sound to outer space.” You might recognize some of the following classics featuring Yann: Ippu-do’s Night Mirage, Masumi Hara’s 4 X A DREAM, Ryuichi Sakamoto’s Illustrated Musical Encyclopedia, and Pizzicato Five’s Bellissima\!  
\[...\]  
The 20-track concept album plays out like a sci-fi stage musical about two young girls named Caroline and Suzi, voiced by Buffalo Daughter’s Yumiko Ohno and frequent Tomita collaborator Suzi Kim. Caroline is a young musical prodigy with a case of chronic sadness. At times, she is too sad to sing, and cries while playing Chopin. “Life’s not only about having a good time, is it?” Caroline asks, to which Suzi responds, 'That’s right Caroline, life’s not only about being down and out.'"

Here's another excerpt, this one from sputnik music user gryndstone:  
"Most of the ideas on Doopee Time stem from Caroline’s thought process, her mind working things out with the help of Suzi, encouraging her to sing, taking her places, and giving her advice. The girls go to the doctor, they go to space, they go to Suzi’s aunts place on Saint Thomas (who used to live in China). All in the name of curing Carolines broken heart. And for such an eclectic set of events, there is an equally eclectic array of sounds to be heard  
\[...\]  
At first glance, the most forgettable tracks on Doopee Time are DR. DOMESTIC’S PHYSICAL EFFECTS. The first one sounds like a malfunctioning record player, and the second is synth tones mixed with strings. These tracks come after a five minute lecture on cancer, in which our Doopee duo sounds rightfully perturbed and upset. Some people hear this and think it means one or both of them have breast cancer. I think these people are a bit dour. I read it pretty straight \- they went to the wrong doctor. How do you diagnose heartbreak? The doc on MEDICAL SERVICE doesn’t know. But Dr. Domestic does \- through the healing power of music"

It's a very surreal listen, and somewhat disturbing at parts, given it's themes of death and sadness.

Id highly recommend those interested in subjective musical storytelling listen through it in full.
