---
layout: post
title: "1102:"
date: 2023-12-24
---

Funky House

Funky house originated in the mid-1990s, retaining classic house features while incorporating influences from Funk, Disco, and Soul. Rooted in Chicago House, Garage House, and Deep House, it initially embraced funk/disco samples, known as "disco house." Later, the term "funky house" became associated with warm basslines, side-chaining, and filtering techniques, creating a lively and upbeat groove around 120-130 BPM.

Pioneered by American artists like Todd Terry, Mateo & Matos, Glenn Underground, and DJ Sneak, funky house gained momentum with hits like "The Bomb\! (These Sounds Fall Into My Mind)" and "Disco's Revenge." Its popularity spread to Europe through DJs.

The late 1990s marked a peak in funky house's popularity, with hits such as "U Don't Know Me," "Don't Call Me Baby," and "Lady (Hear Me Tonight)." Labels like Defected, Spinnin', Positiva, Hed Kandi, and Ministry of Sound contributed to its widespread release, featuring producers like Armand Van Helden, Dennis Christopher, Freemasons, Mark Simmons, and Olav Basoski. Dance-Pop singers like Kylie Minogue and Sophie Ellis-Bextor collaborated with funky house, contributing to the 2000s wave of Europop.

Funky house enjoyed success until the mid-2000s with tracks like "Lola's Theme" and "The Weekend." Its decline in the second half of the decade was influenced by more restrictive sampling rights and the rise of Electro House. Despite this, it remained a mainstay in the house scene with active artists like Block & Crown, Wh0, and Earth n Days, and labels such as PornoStar and Tactical Records. The genre still occasionally achieves mainstream hits, exemplified by tracks like "Barbra Streisand," "Peanut Butter Jelly," and "Rasputin."

Kylie Minogue's 2001 hit Can't Get You Out Of My Head, which reached number one on charts in 40 countries worldwide, and more than 800 million combined plays on YouTube and Spotify.  
[https://youtu.be/c18441Eh\_WE](https://youtu.be/c18441Eh_WE)

From Moloko's 2003 album Statues  
[https://youtu.be/X9j\_IreT5yI](https://youtu.be/X9j_IreT5yI)
