---
layout: post
title: "1028:"
date: 2023-10-11
---

This is my 4th time reccing something involving Yo-Yo Ma, the American cellist. Born and partially raised in Paris to Chinese parents and educated in New York City, Yo-Yo Ma was a child prodigy, performing from the age of four and a half. He graduated from the Juilliard School and Harvard University, attended Columbia University, and has performed as a soloist with orchestras around the world. He has recorded more than 90 albums and received 19 Grammy Awards. Also he was in Arthur.

Robert Keith McFerrin Jr. is an American jazz singer and songwriter. He is known for his vocal techniques, such as singing fluidly but with quick and considerable jumps in pitch \- for example, sustaining a melody while also rapidly alternating with arpeggios and harmonies \- as well as scat singing, polyphonic overtone singing, and improvisational vocal percussion. He is widely known for performing and recording regularly as an unaccompanied solo vocal artist. He has frequently collaborated with other artists from both the jazz and classical scenes. McFerrin's song "Don't Worry, Be Happy" was a No. 1 U.S. pop hit in 1988\. He has received 10 Grammy Awards.

Hush is a 1992 a Vocal Jazz/Chamber Music album by Yo-Yo Ma & Bobby McFerrin. It could also be described as Classical Crossover, which I'll talk more about later.  
[https://youtu.be/yLp9LiWl-rw?t=538](https://youtu.be/yLp9LiWl-rw?t=538)

The album is a unique fusion of the classical cello playing and vocals of two exceptionally skilled and renowned musicians. Yo-Yo Ma and Bobby McFerrin's performances on "Hush" are virtuosic and playful. The uncommon blend of genres makes for a very captivating listen.
