---
layout: post
title: "1068:"
date: 2023-11-20
---

Tech Trance

Tech trance is a Trance subgenre that originated in the late 1990s and was most prominent throughout the 2000s. In some way, the genre emerged in response to Pop-oriented and lighter forms of Trance (Vocal Trance, Euro-Trance, and Ibiza Trance), which gained big popularity at that time. It tried to reinvent trance and move it forward in an opposite direction by incorporating influences from Techno. Ultimately, tech trance became a rawer, dirtier, more repetitive and percussive form of trance music, keeping the melodies simpler and avoiding real instruments. Instead, it mainly focuses on the energetic rhythm and synthetic, sometimes complex, sound design.

The genre keeps the fast trance tempo around 135-145 BPM with loud, thumping kick drums and rolling, filtered hi-hats. Additionally, it often incorporates intense, tribal percussion layers of toms and snares, influenced by the then-popular techno style Hardgroove Techno. Tech trance sound is usually heavily side-chained and distorted, initially utilizing new production techniques, which made the genre well-suited for big festivals that were arising in the 2000s, such as Trance Energy and Sensation. The genre was therefore related to Electro House which emerged at a similar time, with some tracks incorporating its signature, fuzzy basslines.

A track from Edge of Innocence, a 2022 album by Roza Terenzi & D. Tiffany.  
[https://youtu.be/\_Orju7JhrSU](https://youtu.be/_Orju7JhrSU)

To me, the sound of this album is straight out of the laste 90s.
