---
layout: post
title: "1090:"
date: 2023-12-12
---

The period from 1492 to 1681 is considered the Siglo de Oro (Golden Age) of Spanish arts. Classical music also flourished during this era with composers such as Tomás Luis de Victoria or Francisco Guerrero, who both innovated upon Renaissance Music. The former introduced dissonance and simple counterpoint melodies, whereas the latter was a precursor of Baroque Music. An important innovation was the introduction of a five-to-six doubled string instrument called vihuela, similar to the guitar. Zarzuela barroca, which blended Operetta influences with Spanish theatre, folk and popular music and regional styles, was also developed during these centuries.

Tomás Luis de Victoria was the most famous Spanish composer of the Renaissance, and the most significant composer of the Counter-Reformation in Spain. He stands among the principal composers of the late Renaissance, and was "admired above all for the intensity of some of his motets and of his Offices for the Dead and for Holy Week". His surviving oeuvre, unlike that of his colleagues, is almost exclusively sacred and polyphonic vocal music, set to Latin texts. As a Catholic priest, as well as an accomplished organist and singer, his career spanned both Spain and Italy. However, he preferred the life of a composer to that of a performer.

Here's one of his more famous compositions  
[https://youtu.be/9xPh-fXYAc4](https://youtu.be/9xPh-fXYAc4)  
O magnum mysterium has an associated plainchant melody, and in this form has been sung since the middle ages. Victoria published a mass based on his motet in 1592\.

Victoria's music reflected his personality, expressing the passion of Spanish mysticism and religion. Many commentators hear in his music a mystical intensity and direct emotional appeal, qualities considered by some to be lacking in the arguably more rhythmically and harmonically placid music of Palestrina. There are quite a few differences in their compositional styles, such as treatment of melody and quarter-note dissonances.

By the way, the Counter-Reformation in Spain refers to the Catholic Church's response to the Protestant Reformation during the 16th century. It involved efforts by the Catholic Church, Spanish monarchy, and religious orders to defend and strengthen Catholicism, suppress Protestant influences, and reassert control over religious matters. This period witnessed the Spanish Inquisition, the establishment of strict censorship, and the promotion of Catholic orthodoxy, contributing to the preservation of Catholic dominance in Spain.
