---
layout: post
title: "1049:"
date: 2023-11-01
---

Milonga is a popular genre from the Río de la Plata region which is characterized by a slow rhythm which usually appears with a guitar. The evolution of the genre happened due to the constant migratory exchanges between America and Europe. Nowadays, it is linked to the roots of Tango.

Payada is a form of Traditional Folk Music native to southern South America, where its interpreter improvises ten-line octosyllabic verses accompanied by a guitar. Many different rhythms such as cifra, estilo and cielito were utilized in the past, but nowadays Milonga is the most popular one. Payada is related to the culture of the gauchos, skilled horsemen who exploited the wild cattle of the region for its leather between the seventeenth and nineteenth centuries.

The presence of the gauchos stretched from Rio Grande do Sul in southern Brazil, through the fertile plains of Uruguay and central Argentina and up to the south of Chile. A notable difference between these regions is that in Rio Grande do Sul payadores are joined by a separate guitar player and do not play their own instrument.

Here's El payador perseguido \- relato por milonga, a 1964 album by Atahualpa Yupanqui that belongs primarily to the genres of Milonga and Payada.  
[https://youtu.be/QYnodzuP--A](https://youtu.be/QYnodzuP--A)

Atahualpa Yupanqui was an Argentine singer, songwriter, guitarist, and writer. He is considered the most important Argentine folk musician of the 20th century. More by him next rec.
