---
layout: post
title: "1085:"
date: 2023-12-07
---

The Moranbong Band ("Tree Peony Peak Band"), also known as the Moran Hill Orchestra, is a North Korean girl group. The original members were selected by the country's supreme leader, Kim Jong Un. Performing interpretive styles of pop, rock, and fusion, they are the first all-female band from the DPRK, and made their world debut on 6 July 2012\. Their varied musical style has been described as symphonic because it is "putting together different kinds of sounds, and ending in a harmonious, pleasing result."

The band has been referred to in the West as "North Korea's version of the Spice Girls".  
[https://youtu.be/rCQ3iJLuw8M](https://youtu.be/rCQ3iJLuw8M)

The need for a modern pop band in North Korea has been attributed to the regime's necessity to please important social strata: Pyongyang elites, military and technical professionals, women, and in particular, young people. The existence of the band suggests the acceptability of fashion items such as mini-skirts and high heels for women, and their short hairstyles have become popular among middle-class Pyongyang girls. The band quickly became a cultural symbol of limited openness to Western influences to the young of North Korea.

The founding of the new, more modern band can be seen as an acknowledgement that several other light-music bands, such as the Wangjaesan Light Music Band and Pochonbo Electronic Ensemble, have gone out of fashion. Features of the Moranbong Band suggest that it's a response to the success of South Korean hallyu, Korean Wave, of contemporary pop music. With the advent of the Moranbong Band, groups created by Kim Jong Un's father Kim Jong Il have diminished in importance. The Unhasu Orchestra has disappeared and the Sea of Blood Opera Company demoted.

According to KCNA, "Kim Jong Un organized the Moranbong band as required by the new century, prompted by a grandiose plan to bring about a dramatic turn in the field of literature and arts this year in which a new century of Juche Korea begins".
