---
layout: post
title: "1070:"
date: 2023-11-22
---

Dream Trance

First developing in the mid-1990s, dream trance is a form of early Trance music primarily derived from Progressive House, as the two genres were still closely affiliated around that time, featuring mild tempos around 130 BPM with heavy influences from Eurodance and popular European Dance-Pop of its time. Dream trance often emphasizes soothing (live or digital) instruments, usually piano, violin, guitar, or even saxophone, which together serve the purpose of creating a dreamlike, carefree, and trance-inducing atmosphere. The genre occasionally features vocals (often by female vocalists) as well.

Dream trance is closely related to Ibiza Trance, which emerged around the same time and often features similar elements, including similar BPM ranges, "Latin"-influenced guitar (the Spanish guitar in particular) melodies, and laid-back atmospheres. The two are primarily distinguished by dream trance's more pronounced reliance on Eurodance-inspired beats (unlike Ibiza trance's occasional Downtempo or even Breakbeat-inspired beats), and its more "cinematic" and dramatic sound. Progressive Trance, another progressive house/trance derivative, is comparably more synthetic and intense than dream trance, almost always lacking the live instruments and the laid-back atmosphere of the genre, instead focusing on ethereal, arp-heavy progressions and stronger, faster rhythms. Dream trance primarily emerged from Italy, contrasting with Ibiza trance's source \- the Ibiza club scene in the Balearic islands.

Though the genre's golden years are usually considered between 1995 and 1998, it was nonetheless important for many styles of 2000s progressive house and progressive trance, as well as to the euphoric Uplifting Trance and radio-accessible Vocal Trance.

Here's a 1992 album, Mind Fruit by Opus.  
[https://youtu.be/BJg9PnugsZA](https://youtu.be/BJg9PnugsZA)

The first track, "It's a Fine Day," is a song written by English poet and musician Edward Barton. It was originally recorded a cappella in 1983 by Jane and later by Opus III, for whom it was a major international hit in 1992\.

Here's Jane's version:  
https://youtu.be/4vgcYBwyw28
