---
layout: post
title: "1056:"
date: 2023-11-08
---

Goa trance

Goa trance is the forefather of Psytrance that arose in the early 1990s. While retaining the structures, groove, rapid arpeggios and fast tempo around 135-150 BPM, it is largely distinct from other forms of Trance. Emerging in Goa state of India, which has been a popular destination for the psychedelic and hippie culture, the genre is rooted in the Psychedelia movement and scene previously centred around Psychedelic Rock. This resulted in long tracks, complex melodies, distortion effects and general sound emulating or enhancing the usage of psychedelic drugs. Similarly to other psychedelia styles, goa trance may also feature instrumentation and oriental melodies inspired by South Asian Music, and commonly refers to hallucinogenic drugs, mythology, fantasy, and science-fiction via samples used and visual representation.

Throughout the 1980s, the live bands were increasingly replaced by DJs using DATs, and Electronic Dance Music became the dominant music in goa parties, in particular EBM, Acid House and New Beat which would influence the genre. A wave of mostly new beat tracks predicting certain goa trance elements is known as proto-goa. When proper goa trance emerged in the early 1990s, it was mostly influenced by the classic trance and Acid Trance. The term "psytrance" was initially used interchangeably before they were later distinguished, with goa trance referring exclusively to the original form in contrast to later developments.

Around the late 1990s, the sound started to evolve in new directions, typically less organic, but more metallic. This would soon spawn new, major strains of psytrance while marking the end of the goa trance era. However, a revival form known as new school goa would emerge in the 2000s, featuring more detailed production while retaining the goa trance atmosphere.

Here's Blue Planet Corporation's 1999 Goa Trance album Blue Planet.  
[https://youtu.be/Lz5wOk952L8](https://youtu.be/Lz5wOk952L8)
