---
layout: post
title: "1091:"
date: 2023-12-13
---

Like its more popular 19th century form, the early Zarzuela of the Baroque Music era is characterized by its artistic diversity; the zarzuela barroca can include scenes of spoken word theater, operatic singing, instrumental interludes and accompaniment, dance choreography, renditions of popular melodies, poetry, and episodes of humor or satire. Libretti (scripts) are generally derived from Spanish literature or the myths of Classical antiquity and favor straightforward plots in rustic or pastoral settings. Baroque zarzuelas, especially those of the 18th century, share many similarities with Italian Opera of the same period, though even “Italianate” zarzuelas retain distinctively Spanish rhythms and texts.

Juan Hidalgo and Pedro Calderón de la Barca are generally credited with creating the first zarzuela with El Laurel de Apolo, a comedy that premiered in 1657 at the Palacio de la Zarzuela, a venue from which the genre would eventually derive its name. El Laurel de Apolo combined traditional Spanish theater with expanded musical accompaniment and singing informed by opera along with the other diverse forms of entertainment that came to characterize zarzuela altogether. Following the deaths of Hidalgo and Calderón and accession of the Bourbon dynasty to the Spanish throne, zarzuela would steadily adopt musical trends made popular by Italian opera, such as the recitative, the ritornello, and heavily-ornamented singing. Throughout the 18th century, zarzuela would decline into obscurity alongside many other Baroque genres. However, it would eventually find new life in the mid-19th century with the development of the Zarzuela grande.

[https://youtu.be/zH\_YQtFVUxY?t=448](https://youtu.be/zH_YQtFVUxY?t=448)
