---
layout: post
title: "1116:"
date: 2024-01-07
---

For those unaware, Brittany (aka Little Britain) is a peninsula, historical country and cultural area in the north-west of modern France, covering the western part of what was known as Armorica during the period of Roman occupation. It became an independent kingdom and then a duchy before being united with the Kingdom of France in 1532 as a province governed as a separate nation under the crown. Breton is a Southwestern Brittonic language of the Celtic language group spoken in Brittany, part of modern-day France.

Since the early 1970s, Brittany has experienced a tremendous revival of its folk music. Along with flourishing traditional forms such as the bombard-biniou pair and fest-noz ensembles incorporating other additional instruments, it has also branched out into numerous subgenres.

A bagad is a Breton band, composed of bagpipes (Breton: binioù, French: cornemuse), bombards and drums (including snare, tenor and bass drums). The pipe band tradition in Brittany was inspired by the Scottish example and has developed since the mid-20th century. A bagad plays mainly Breton music, but a bagad's music is evolutionary: new forms and musical ideas are experimented with at each annual national competition.

Every major town and city in Brittany has at least one bagad and there are over eighty in total. There are also many bagadoù outside Brittany, owing to large-scale Breton emigration throughout France. Bagad Lann Bihoue is well known to belong to the French Navy.

For competition purposes the bagadoù are ranked into five categories. Major competitions take place annually in Brest and in Lorient, where the National Championship takes place during the Interceltic Festival in August.

Here's Excerpt 3 ("Kimiad") from the Tan De'i concert by bagad CAP CAVAL at the Grand Théâtre de Lorient during the 2017 Interceltic Festival      
[https://youtu.be/Lp\_-lll4vWc](https://youtu.be/Lp_-lll4vWc)

Some background:  
Bagad Cap Caval is a bagad located in the Bigouden area, started in Plomeur in 1984\. The association has two bagad schools and a pipe band. The band won the World Pipe Band Championships in Grade 2 in 2008\. Bagad Cap Caval was promoted to the first class of bagadoù championship in 1995\.

Another band, Bagad Kemper is one of the oldest bagad, Breton pipe bands. Formed in 1949, its first president was none other than Loeïz Ropars, renovator of the Fest Noz and kan ha diskan singer. This ensemble holds the record for the most national Championship title wins (something like 21\)  
Here's another performance from The Festival interceltique de Lorient, this one from Bagad Kemper.  
[https://youtu.be/wsNNsSw1CRw](https://youtu.be/wsNNsSw1CRw)  
A much more modern feel
