---
layout: post
title: "1174:"
date: 2024-03-05
---

Funeral Doom Metal is a style of Doom Metal that pushes the genre's characteristics to the extreme, featuring exceptionally slow, funeral dirge-inspired tempos (generally around 40 bpm), heavily distorted, sluggish guitars, and organ-like keyboards and synthesizers. The slowness contributes to a lack of double kicks and radical tempo changes. The style usually puts emphasis on creating a mournful, depressive, and melancholic atmosphere and treats riffs as an additional element to the sound. Vocals are generally distant, hushed growls and grunts, rarely featuring clean singing.

Origins of funeral doom metal can be traced back to the early 1990s Death Doom Metal, a style with which funeral doom would often crossover, with bands like Unholy, Winter, and diSEMBOWELMENT (see rec 672\) utilizing even slower sections and influencing pioneering groups. Funeral doom saw its first wave of artists coming from Finland, with Thergothon's debut album, Stream From the Heavens, being considered a foundational release for the genre. Soon after, Skepticism's work solidified funeral doom's unique style, while Esoteric and Evoken gave funeral doom a foothold outside Scandinavia. The style gained more popularity and critical attention in the 2000s and 2010s, with Shape of Despair, Ahab, and Bell Witch further exploring the sound.

Here's a 20 minute track from Esoteric's 2008 album The Maniacal Vale  
[https://youtu.be/xwCQeaESX-I](https://youtu.be/xwCQeaESX-I)

I still don't like doom metal but I'm putting this genre and album here for completion's sake
