---
layout: post
title: "1125:"
date: 2024-01-16
---

maidcore (мейдкор)

In the mid-2010s, an interesting trend emerged among Russian social media artists on VK. They began creating music in genres like Alternative Metal, Post-Rock, Post-Metal, Witch House, Trap \[EDM\], Trancecore, and various Electronic styles, all infused with a Japanese/Otaku aesthetic and featuring maids. A lively VK community dedicated to this style has flourished.

Yakui the Maid, Ozoi the Maid, and Chikoi the Maid are some of the most recognized artists within this niche, but the community boasts many others.

Maidcore musicians' names are inspired by the Japanese Futaba Channel board (among other sources), all carrying the prefix "The\_maid."

Maidcore Music encompasses a range of electronic genres distinguished by robust guitar riffs, solos, 8-16 bit elements reminiscent of vintage tape recorders and traditional segovod toys (idk what this is, this was translated from russian). It features vocals with both subdued and intense female screams, a blend of depressive-aggressive melodies achieved through synth voices and ONIMEE embellishments, and signature breakbeat segments with growling 808 basses on three different roads \- not to mention the intriguing incorporation of vicious hats intertwined with lo-fi effects reminiscent of IDM styles. The variety in the genre makes it pretty appealing as a scene.

Here's a mix of some popular tracks.  
[https://youtu.be/gjx11RfLiIU](https://youtu.be/gjx11RfLiIU)
