---
layout: post
title: "1140:"
date: 2024-01-31
---

Doo-wop, a 1950s R\&B style, centers on male four-part harmonies and minimal instrumentation. A cappella performances of doo-wop songs have been popular among amateur groups and street performers from the genres 1940s origins to the present. The onomatopoeic name, referring to the often silly lyrics, was bestowed on the genre retrospectively in the early 1960s.

Doo-wop drew influence from The Mills Brothers and The Ink Spots but evolved in the late 1940s and 1950s, aligning with the appeal to teenagers that characterized the birth of Rock & Roll. Early hits like "Sixty Minute Man" by Billy Ward and The Dominoes were notably risqué of the time and generated much controversy.

Key doo-wop groups, including "bird" groups like The Orioles, The Swallows, The Ravens, and The Larks, emerged in cities across the Northeastern U.S. and California. As with Rock & Roll, doo-wop gained popularity among white audiences in the late 1950s, with groups like Dion & The Belmonts and The Four Seasons. By the 1960s, the doo-wop style waned but influenced vocal groups like The Temptations and The Beach Boys.

Although no longer a mainstream genre, doo-wop experiences occasional revivals, evident in Sha Na Na's performances at Woodstock and in Grease. The mid-1980s saw a resurgence with songs like The Housemartins' "Caravan of Love" and the use of "Earth Angel" in the movie Back to the Future.

Here's side 1 of Flamingo Serenade, a 1959 song by The Flamingos  
[https://youtu.be/o3vBK4GJvto](https://youtu.be/o3vBK4GJvto)

Here's a song from The Teenagers, a 1956 album by The Teenagers Featuring Frankie Lymon. This group was composed of five boys, all in their early to mid-teens  
[https://youtu.be/lU9Q7hEhQjY](https://youtu.be/lU9Q7hEhQjY)  
Frankie Lymon sadly died from heroin overdose at the age of 25\.
