---
layout: post
title: "1147:"
date: 2024-02-07
---

Guaracha

The original inspiration of guaracha were the Spanish 'jácaras.' Jácaras were satirical and playful (often using a vulgar language) short monologues and songs played in the entr'actes of theatrical performances during the 16th and 17th centuries. Jácaras evolved into guaracha in Cuba during the 18th century.

Guaracha became particularly popular with the apparition of the theatre "El Bufo Habanero". It became a fully formed genre in the 19th century as a kind of humorous song with short musical notes and a fast tempo that commonly alternates a short fourth line verse with a repeated fourth line chorus. Is usually performed by a tiple and a tenor singer that establish a call and response dialogue with the chorus. The most common instruments are güiro, Spanish guitar, cuatro, maracas, tres, accordion and trumpet.

In the 20th century it became particulary popular as 'guaracha son', under the influence of Son cubano. Guaracha was also very influential in the development of Salsa, to the point that some old guarachas are sometimes considered as early forms of salsa. Guaracha is also very popular in Puerto Rico, which developed its own style of guarachas.

Here's a song from Son con guaguancó, a 1966 by Celia Cruz  
[https://youtu.be/405RYiCP2zo](https://youtu.be/405RYiCP2zo)

Úrsula Hilaria Celia de la Caridad Cruz Alfonso (1925-2003), known as Celia Cruz, was a Cuban singer and one of the most popular Latin artists of the 20th century. Cruz rose to fame in Cuba during the 1950s as a singer of guarachas, earning the nickname "La Guarachera de Cuba". In the following decades, she became known internationally as the "Queen of Salsa" due to her contributions to Latin music. She had sold over 10 million copies, making her one of the best-selling Latin music artists.
