---
layout: post
title: "1155:"
date: 2024-02-15
---

Space ambient refers to a style of flowing and relaxing Ambient Electronic music oriented around imagery of outer space. The style typically employs sequencers along with cosmic synthesizers which are played in a sweeping and gradual manner (akin to and often utilising aspects of Minimalism). The successive ascending and descending rhythms are enhanced by almost imperceptible patterns in order to create a resonating, distant psychedelic sound. Like other "space music" (the wider term space ambient is categorized under), the ethereal, dreamlike effect of the synthesizer pads and additional sound effects is commonly coupled with artists and releases using space and general science fiction themes on artwork and track titles. Space ambient's usual aim is to provide the listener with both meditative background music and to 'transport' them on an aural journey, stimulating the imagination.

Emerging in the early 1970s from the ambient side of Berlin School and other Progressive Electronic music, pioneering artists Tangerine Dream and Klaus Schulze developed the style on releases such as Zeit and Irrlicht respectively. Like other ambient styles, its relaxing, unobtrusive atmosphere lent itself to soundtracks (notable examples being Brian Eno's Apollo: Atmospheres & Soundtracks and Vangelis's Blade Runner) and therapeutic work. There was a large degree of overlap with and influence of New Age music in the later development of the genre, seen in the works of Constance Demby and Jonn Serrie.

Here's Structures From Silence, a 1984 album by Steve Roach, a popular and prolific composer and performer of ambient and electronic, as well as an influece to the genres of trance and new-age.  
[https://youtu.be/AsIjyJvhR9A](https://youtu.be/AsIjyJvhR9A)
