---
layout: post
title: "1144:"
date: 2024-02-04
---

Pop soul is a fusion of Pop and Soul that originated in the 1960s as an attempt to give soul music crossover success. The style is exemplified by Motown Records artists such as The Supremes ("Baby Love"), Martha and The Vandellas ("Jimmy Mack"), and The Miracles ("Tears of a Clown"). Pop soul eventually metamorphosed into Disco in the 1970s, and in the 1980s, elements of the genre were incorporated into Sophisti-Pop.

Blue-eyed soul is a genre blending R\&B with contemporary pop, notably featuring white American and British artists. Originating in the 1960s, it merged R\&B with lavish orchestrations, exemplified by The Righteous Brothers and Dusty Springfield. The Beach Boys later shifted it towards Pop Rock, influencing Todd Rundgren and Supertramp. In the 1970s, Daryl Hall & John Oates embraced blue-eyed soul in a pop rock/Soft Rock format. In the UK, Average White Band and David Bowie's "Young Americans" contributed to its popularity.

The second wave emerged with New Wave in the late 1970s, influencing artists like Hall & Oates, Culture Club, and Simply Red. The Jam incorporated blue-eyed soul into Mod Revival, influencing bands like The Style Council. The Northern Soul scene in England also played a significant role, inspiring bands such as Dexys Midnight Runners and The Housemartins.

The term "blue-eyed soul" originated in the racially segregated 1960s music industry, used to describe white R\&B artists. It sparked debates on racial implications, with critics arguing it reinforces segregation. Despite declining usage, artists like James Hunter still draw inspiration from the blue-eyed soul of past decades.

Here's a nice romantic song by Dusty Springfield from her 1969 album Dusty in Memphis. It belongs to both of the genres described above.  
[https://youtu.be/pdgWLxqZkC4](https://youtu.be/pdgWLxqZkC4)
