---
layout: post
title: "1172:"
date: 2024-03-03
---

In the 1950s and 1960s, Rock was considered incompatible with Christian beliefs. This changed in the 1980s, during the evangelical movement in the United States when the influence of Christianity in politics and art exploded. Christian rock is generally considered part of the contemporary Christian music movement, as it embraced a more faithful and polished image compared to the drug inspired-music of the 1960s and 1970s. Its largest element is, of course, its lyrics about religion and Biblical topics like sin, Jesus Christ and Biblical stories.

Musically, on the other hand, these groups are extremely diverse. Overall, the genre tends to be more radio friendly and pop in execution; this subset includes progenitors like Larry Norman and Randy Stonehill but also more contemporary artists. Though, especially in the 2000s, bands like Red and Skillet carried a heavier and rougher sound that was popular at the time. Some bands have even brought their Christian lyrics into a more experimental space.

Since the 1980s, Christian rock has grown in popularity with many websites, concerts, and radio stations dedicated to it.

The Texas-Jerusalem Crossroads is a 2001 album by American indie rock band Lift to Experience. Here's a track off that album, the original 2001 mix, which I prefer.  
[https://youtu.be/jvEqUjuQhRc](https://youtu.be/jvEqUjuQhRc)

"These are the days" refers to the prophecies of the apocalypse in the Book of Revelation. This song is filled with references to it.
