---
layout: post
title: "1192:"
date: 2024-03-23
---

Arciorgano

Built in 2016 by Fleig Orgel- und Cembalobau in collaboration with Studio31. The instrument is an organo di legno with one open principale stop based on 8'. The construction type of the organ pipes follows the model of the original instrument in the Silberne Kapelle Innsbruck.

The keyboard has 36 keys per octave, organised on two manuals. The lower (white) keys are arranged in a conventional diatonic layout. On both manuals all upper (black) keys are split into two parts. On the lower manual there is an additional key between the notes b and c, and between e and f respectively. The keyboard range of the lower manual is four octaves, C to c''', and on the upper manual F to c'''.

The organ uses a tracker action with brass wire trackers. There are two separate rollerboards, one for each manual. The wind chest is doubled as well, with two rows of valves. For the wind supply there are two manually operated bellows at the side of the instrument. Alternatively they can be powered by an electric fan. The windpressure is 50mm water column.

The pipe arrangement is in the shape of a mitre with a facade facing the player. Three rows of pipes are located on the wind chest, a fourth one at the back of the instrument on the level of the keyboard and a fifth one for the bass pipes on floor level. All pipes are made of yellow cedar (Canada), the case is made of French chestnut (North Italy). The pipes are cut to length, without tuning devices such as sliders or flaps. The reference pitch is g'=440 Hz (19°C), which equals a'=492 Hz (19°C). The tuning remains stable between temperatures of 17°C and 29°C, while the reference pitch moves according to the temperature changes.

The tuning system follows Vicentino's second description of 1555: the lower manual is tuned in quarter-comma meantone with a chain of fifth starting with g flat and ending with b sharp. The upper manual is tuned in quarter-comma meantone as well, with a chain of fifth from g flat to a sharp. Relatively to the lower manual, the upper manual is transposed upwards by a quarter syntonic comma.

[https://youtu.be/ld36JlmOtM0](https://youtu.be/ld36JlmOtM0)

The next few recs will be on modern Yoruba music and some related genres.

The music of the Yoruba people, spanning Nigeria and Benin, encapsulates a rich tapestry of ancient and contemporary traditions, deeply ingrained in West African music. Originating from diverse ethnic groups like Ife, Oyo, Egba, and others, Yoruba music underwent a process of integration during the 19th century, resulting in a unified cultural expression across Yorubaland.

Central to Yoruba music are polyrhythmic drumming and repetitive call-and-response structures. The drums hold significant cultural importance, with various types such as dundun, sakara, gbedu, akuba, and batá, each serving specific roles in different contexts or genres. Yoruba drumming, characterized by intricate cross-rhythms, is renowned as one of the most sophisticated drumming traditions globally. Besides drums, Yoruba music features instruments like goje, shekere, agidigbo, and agogô.

Vocal traditions, including Oriki (praise songs), Ijala (hunter chants), and Odu (Ifa worship songs), contribute to the diverse musical landscape. The religious dimension of Yoruba music is pronounced, with drums emulating the tonality of the Yoruba language in sacred rituals. While sacred Yoruba music recordings are rare in Nigeria, Afro-Cuban Yoruba rituals have been extensively documented, showcasing the music's global influence.

Yoruba music has undergone significant evolution, incorporating influences from Islamic traditions like Waka, sakara, and apala, as well as Western genres such as Jazz, Rock, and Funk. This fusion has given rise to neotraditional styles like fuji, jùjú, and afrobeat. Pioneers like Barrister, King Sunny Adé, and Fela Kuti have propelled these genres to international prominence.

In essence, Yoruba music is not only a cultural cornerstone within Nigeria and Benin but also a vibrant force in global music, embodying a synthesis of tradition, innovation, and cultural exchange.
