---
layout: post
title: "1188:"
date: 2024-03-19
---

The Tuareg, a nomadic Amazigh people, inhabit the vast expanse of the Saharan desert across North Africa, with significant populations found in Niger, Mali, Algeria, Libya, and Burkina Faso.

Central to Tuareg culture is their music, a vibrant expression deeply rooted in Amazigh tradition. A distinctive instrument in Tuareg music is the imzad, a single-string violin crafted from calabash or wood, its resonant body covered with animal skin, while its string and bow are fashioned from horsehair. Typically played by women, the imzad accompanies the soulful melodies of asak songs.

Tuareg musical traditions encompass a variety of genres, from the ancient rhythms of tisiway, poetic chants, to the poignant tahengemmit, solemn elders' songs. Among them are the lively tasikisikit, women's melodies complemented by the rhythmic beats of the tende, a tambour made from goat skin, and the playful bellulla, children's songs performed with lip techniques and accompanied by instruments like the fadangama, odili, and gidga.

In addition to these traditional forms, Tuareg music has evolved to embrace contemporary styles, notably Tishoumaren, also recognized as Tuareg blues or desert blues. Originating in the 1980s with bands like Tinariwen from Mali, Tishoumaren infuses electric guitars into traditional melodies, blending elements of Blues and Rock. This genre has gained popularity, featuring smaller ensembles compared to traditional Tamasheq music, with artists like Group Inerane and Tartit also contributing to its evolution.

Here's some Tishoumaren:

Here's a track from Afrique victime, a 2021 album by Mdou Moctar  
[https://youtu.be/y23ewhFf\_hs](https://youtu.be/y23ewhFf_hs)

Here's a track from Tinariwen's 2017 album Elwan  
[https://youtu.be/vACZA9dGvV4](https://youtu.be/vACZA9dGvV4)

Here's Tinariwen's full performance on KEXP. Great stuff  
[https://youtu.be/PItnw3Z7WgY](https://youtu.be/PItnw3Z7WgY)

Nice album cover

Studio31 is an association based in Basel, Switzerland. From 2015 to 2017, the Hochschule für Musik Basel and the Schola Cantorum Basiliensis hosted a research project, funded by CTI with the name Studio31. In this research project, the core team Johannes Keller (musician), Martin Kirnbauer (musicologist) and Caspar Johannes Walter (composer) prepared the reconstruction of the two renaissance keyboard instruments arciorgano and clavemusicum omnitonum with 36 and 31 keys per octave.

The next 4 recs will be on the Studio31 instruments.
