---
layout: post
title: "1135:"
date: 2024-01-26
---

Here's Lalleshwari's (aka KatieJane Garside) 2006 album Lullabies in a Glass Wilderness  
[https://youtu.be/I1Pce-KrnLA?t=2678](https://youtu.be/I1Pce-KrnLA?t=2678) (I timestamped a stand-out track that doesn't reflect the rest of the album very well. I like the whole album)  
Art Pop and Avant-Folk

A weird album (as avant-folk generally is), but in no way unpleasant to listen to. Cryptic and dark, and also very diverse (for example, I get strong trip hop vibes on Dark Angel and on no other track on the album). I haven't listened through it fully yet because I want to take my time digesting each song.

From wikipedia:  
Katrina Jane Garside is an English singer, songwriter, and visual artist. She is known for her variegated musical projects encompassing numerous genres such as noise rock, alternative metal, acoustic, and neofolk, and vocals that range from childlike whispers to harsh scream singing. The London Evening Standard once described her as "one of the scariest women in alternative music."

Garside had an itinerant childhood, growing up in several locations throughout England due to her father's service in the British Army. She spent a significant portion of her adolescence aboard a yacht sailing the high sea with her family. As a teenager, she was discovered by record producer Glyn Johns, and collaborated musically with his son, Ethan, for approximately one year. She later rose to prominence as the lead vocalist of the indie noise rock band Daisy Chainsaw, which she formed in 1989 in London with guitarist Crispin Gray.

After quitting Daisy Chainsaw in 1993, Garside went into seclusion for several years before reuniting with Gray in 1999 to form the rock band Queenadreena, with whom she released four studio albums between 2000 and 2008\. In both Daisy Chainsaw and Queenadreena, Garside received critical attention for her alternately harsh and childlike vocals, manic onstage behavior, and raucous live concerts.
