---
layout: post
title: "1142:"
date: 2024-02-02
---

Brill Building refers to a type of composition and arrangement style within Pop music, associated with the songwriting teams at the eponymous estate in New York City during the late 1950s and early 1960s. The Brill Building itself was a block of music publishing houses where teams of professional writers worked to create the music, including Burt Bacharach, Neil Sedaka and Gerry Goffin \+ Carole King, usually for teen idols or Girl Groups.

The sound, influenced by Rock & Roll, Doo-Wop, Rhythm & Blues, and Tin Pan Alley, featured elaborate arrangements with orchestras, piano/keyboard hooks, and large bands. Hits like Sedaka's "Happy Birthday, Sweet Sixteen" and Little Eva's "The Loco-Motion" emerged from this era. Despite falling out of favor with the British Invasion, the Brill Building's influence persists in Pop Rock.

Phil Spector, a Brill Building songwriter turned producer, developed the Wall of Sound at Gold Star Studios in the early 1960s. This stylistic offshoot, known as 'Spectropop,' showcased Spector's signature production on recordings by girl groups like The Ronettes and The Crystals. The 'wall of sound' profoundly impacted pop music, inspiring acts such as The Beach Boys, The Walker Brothers, and Roy Wood.

Here's a short mix of a few songs from Presenting The Fabulous Ronettes Featuring Veronica", a 1964 album by The Ronettes.  
[https://youtu.be/zE3Lipqmm2g](https://youtu.be/zE3Lipqmm2g)

Phil Spector and his Wall of Sound were covered extensively in MUSI 1002\.
