---
layout: post
title: "1117:"
date: 2024-01-08
---

I touched upon this briefly in the past rec, but here's a more im depth explanation:

A fest noz (sometimes hyphenated as fest-noz; "night festival" in Breton) is a Breton traditional festival, with dancing in groups and live musicians playing acoustic instruments.

Although it is easy to write off the fest nozou and fêtes folkloriques as modern inventions, most of the traditional dances of the fest noz are ancient, some dating back to the Middle Ages, providing a way for the community to grasp hold of its past and relish a deep sense of being with ancestors and with place.

The plural in Breton is festoù noz, but the Goadec Sisters (a family of traditional singers) used to say festnozoù, and the French may also say in French des fest-noz.

On 5 December 2012 the fest noz was added by UNESCO to the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.

[https://youtu.be/v8cskl1leSo](https://youtu.be/v8cskl1leSo)

In the past, the dances were sometimes used to trample the ground to make a firm earth floor in a house or a solid surface for farm work (the "aire neuve" dances), to which people from the neighbourhood were invited, which explains the presence of stamping movements in some of the dances. For a long time the church banned "kof-ha-kof" (stomach-to-stomach) dances, meaning dancing in pairs. These festivals were a chance for young people to meet and size each other up, on a social level, by their clothes, and to see how quickly they got tired, since dances sometimes continued for a long time and involved complex and swift steps that required effort and skill.

These days, festoù noz are still very popular, mixing the different generations. Most of the villages have a fest noz at least once a year, organised by the sports clubs, the school, etc. It is a way to express their culture and identity, and to share common values with friends of a night. As in many group folk dances, one talks of sometimes reaching a trance state because of repetitive music, and physical exertion. During the summer and tourist season, in many ways, taking part in a fest noz is for many people like an alternative way of going to a night club.
