---
layout: post
title: "1197:"
date: 2024-03-28
---

Waka is an Islamic genre of Yoruba Music that was originally rooted in Hausa traditions and adopted by the Yoruba in the early 19th century. Initially, waka songs were performed a capella by women during religious ceremonies, although sometimes accompanied by handclapping. During the 20th century, Yoruba percussion was progressively added in the Ijebu region, first tin cymbals (seli or pereseke) and later talking drums. By the 1960s, ensembles resembled Apala groups, featuring dunduns, akuba drums, sekere and agidigbo.

The first waka recordings were made in Lagos in the late 1920s. By the mid-20th century, the genre had become increasingly popoular in the Muslim Yoruba communities, despite the fact that lyrics had become secularized to a great extent. Notable waka singers include Batile Alake and Salawa Abeni; the latter included elements of Fuji in her music due to her association with Kollington Ayinla in the 1980s.

Here's a song from Salawa Abeni's 1976 album Iba Omode Iba Agba  
[https://youtu.be/XVMQuZwVCRY](https://youtu.be/XVMQuZwVCRY)  
Salawa Abeni Alidu (born 5 May 1961\) is a Nigerian singer. An Ijebu Yoruba from Ijebu Waterside, in Ogun State, she began her professional career in waka music when she released her debut album titled, Late General Murtala Ramat Mohammed, in 1976, on Leader Records. It became the first recording by a female artist in Yoruba Songs to sell over a million copies in Nigeria. She was crowned "Queen of Waka Music" by the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi in 1992
