---
layout: post
title: "1194:"
date: 2024-03-25
---

Fon music, originating from central and southeastern Benin and southwestern Nigeria, encompasses diverse traditions shared by groups like the Mahi and Gun. Influential cities like Abomey and Porto Novo, historically ruled by the Aja peoples, have shaped Fon music, known for its rich array of percussion instruments and varied styles. Ceremonial vodun music, akin to Yoruba traditions, features polyrhythmic drumming and call-and-response chanting, with dancing playing a central role. Zinli, initially funerary music, has evolved into a widely performed genre. Tchinkoumé, a Mahi derivation of zinli, and Tchink System, a modern adaptation, showcase the genre's evolution.

Notable traditional Fon musicians include Alèkpéhanhou, Anatole Houndeffo, Yedenou Adjahoui, and Dossou Letriki. Contemporary acts like Stan Tohon, Angélique Kidjo, and T.P. Orchestre Poly-Rythmo de Cotonou have expanded Fon music's scope into Afro-Funk and fusion genres. Fon music's influence extends beyond Benin, with its presence felt in the Americas among Fon-descendant communities, shaping Afro-Cuban, Afro-Haitian, Afro-Trinidadian, and Afro-Brazilian musical traditions. Albarika Store has been a key distributor of Fon music and Beninese Afro-Funk since 1969\.

Here's one of the 2 songs on Zoundegnon Bernard 'Papillon' guitariste principal, a 1977 album by T.P. Orchestre Poly-Rythmo de Cotonou \- Bénin  
[https://youtu.be/pQ\_yCsyFN\_E](https://youtu.be/pQ_yCsyFN_E)
