---
layout: post
title: "1148:"
date: 2024-02-08
---

Danzón

Danzón, originating in late 19th-century Cuba, evolved from Cuban contradanza (aka Habanera), which was the first internationally successful Cuban musical genre. The genre is typically in 2/4 time, featuring African influence through complex cross-rhythms. Miguel Faílde's "Las alturas de Simpson" marked the inception in 1879\. Initially played by "orquestas típicas," it shifted to smaller charangas by the 1920s, influenced by Son cubano and other Cuban styles. The danzonete, blending danzón and son cubano, gained popularity in the 1930s.

During the 1940s and 1950s, Mambo and Chachachá emerged from danzón, incorporating syncopation. Orestes López's "Mambo" and Enrique Jorrín's addition of the "cha-cha-cha" rhythm led to these subgenres. As Mambo, Chachachá, Pachanga, son cubano, and Cuban rumba gained popularity, danzón declined in the 1960s. However, in Mexico, Arturo Márquez revived danzón, infusing it with Western Classical Music influences.

Here's a Danzón album from 1961, Danzones clásicos by Acerina y Su Danzonera, a band formed in 1938 in Mexico.  
[https://youtu.be/M9mkw2JyhAI](https://youtu.be/M9mkw2JyhAI)

Here's Introducing..., a 1997 Danzón and Afro-Cuban Jazz album by Rubén González  
[https://youtu.be/oNXQllVEtdo?t=1032](https://youtu.be/oNXQllVEtdo?t=1032)  
Rubén González Fontanills was a Cuban pianist. Together with Lilí Martínez and Peruchín he is said to have "forged the style of modern Cuban piano playing in the 1940s".

Between the 1940s and his retirement in the 1980s, he played with Cuba's most successful acts, including Paulina Álvarez, Arsenio Rodríguez, Orquesta América del 55, Orquesta Riverside and Enrique Jorrín. In the 1990s, he came out of retirement to play in the revival ensembles Afro-Cuban All Stars and Buena Vista Social Club, also recording solo material and performing live until 2002\.
