---
layout: post
title: "1129:"
date: 2024-01-20
---

In the tapestry of Hispanic and Latino/Latina/Latinx identities, the term "Chicano/Chicana" holds a distinct significance. It describes a person who is native of, or descends from, Mexico and who lives in the United States. Chicano or Chicana is a chosen identity of some Mexican Americans in the United States. The term became widely used during the Chicano Movement of the 1960s by many Mexican Americans to express a political stance founded on pride in a shared cultural, ethnic, and community identity.

Chicano (masculine form) or Chicana (feminine form) is an ethnic identity for Mexican Americans who have a non-Anglo self-image, embracing their Mexican Native ancestry. Chicano was originally a classist and racist slur used toward low-income Mexicans that was reclaimed in the 1940s among youth who belonged to the Pachuco and Pachuca subculture. In the 1960s, Chicano was widely reclaimed in the building of a movement toward political empowerment, ethnic solidarity, and pride in being of indigenous descent (with many using the Nahuatl language or names). Chicano developed its own meaning separate from Mexican American identity. Youth in barrios rejected cultural assimilation into whiteness and embraced their own identity and worldview as a form of empowerment and resistance. The community forged an independent political and cultural movement, sometimes working alongside the Black power movement.

Read more about the term here:  
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicano](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicano)

Musically, Chicano music takes no one form, rather, it's better to think of Chicano music as a long and distinctive musical tradition born from the cultural fusion of Mexican heritage and the American experience, and celebrated for its unique blend of diverse influences and its role in expressing the identity and pride of Mexican Americans. Chicano electro, folk, rap, jazz, rock, and various other genres are all distinct and unique.

Lalo Guerrero has been lauded as the "father of Chicano music." Beginning in the 1930s, he wrote songs in the big band and swing genres and expanded into traditional genres of Mexican music. During the farmworkers' rights campaign, he wrote music in support of César Chávez and the United Farm Workers. Other notable musicians include Selena, who sang a mixture of Mexican, Tejano, and American popular music, and died in 1995 at the age of 23; Zack de la Rocha, social activist and lead vocalist of Rage Against the Machine; and Los Lonely Boys, a Texas-style country rock band.

Here's a nice mix of a few artists that have contributed significantly to the Chicano musical landscape  
[https://youtu.be/d0TSB4QCsLU?t=386](https://youtu.be/d0TSB4QCsLU?t=386)
