---
layout: post
title: "1195:"
date: 2024-03-26
---

Apala is a genre of Yoruba Music developed by Muslims during the late 1930s and early 1940s in the Ijebu region of Yorubaland, the current Ogun state. It appeared as a form of religious entertainment developed by gangan drummers to counter the popularity of sakara (another Islamic genre) and etike (a dundun-based secular genre). Like wéré (also Islamic), apala was originally linked to the month of Ramadan. However, it quickly became a form of general entertainment amongst Muslims, reaching its peak of popularity during the 1950s and '60s. The main instruments in apala are talking drums, the sekere rattle, the agogo bell and the agidigbo, a thumb piano generally played by the lead singer. During the 1960s, influence from Afro-Cuban music led to the incorporation of instruments such as the ogido (a local relative of the conga drum), claves and maracas. Backing vocalists are responsible for maintaining the standard Yoruba call-and-response structure throughout each song.

Initially, the most successful apala bandleaders were drummers, but from the 1950s on many singers such as Ligali Mukaiba and most notably Haruna Ishola became the main exponents of the genre. Another important figure was Ayinla Omowura. These artists kept the style alive during the 1970s, but by the 1980s the genre had been completely eclipsed by Fuji, another Islamic genre which had appeared during the 1970s and borrowed many elements from apala. Like sakara, apala remained distinctly attached to traditional Yoruba instrumentation and forms, which would probably facilitate its decline while not only fuji, but also Jùjú and Afrobeat incorporated elements from contemporary Western styles.

Here's a track from Ati D'Ariyo, a 1979 album by Ayinla Omowura  
[https://youtu.be/diwOvvNZFRE](https://youtu.be/diwOvvNZFRE)

Here's a track from Oroki Social Club, a 1971 album by Haruna Ishola  
[https://youtu.be/aX-7sc6GSBM](https://youtu.be/aX-7sc6GSBM)
