---
layout: post
title: "1200:"
date: 2024-03-31
---

Santería music, also known as Lucumí music, is a genre rooted in Afro-Cuban religious rituals honoring deities like Eleggua and Yemayá, blending Cuban and Yorùbá traditions. Originating with Yoruba slaves in Cuba, each Yoruba god was associated with a Christian saint. Despite its early origins, recorded history began in the late 1940s with the internationalization of Cuban music.

Santería music is percussion-driven and groups are traditionally composed of three batá drummers, a chorus, and a lead singer/master of ceremonies (akpwón) all of whom sing in the Lucumí language, a Yoruba dialect with particular Cuban inflections and elements borrowed from other African slave communities. Labels like Panart and Areito played significant roles. Santería music, percussion-centric, features batá drums, a chorus, and a lead singer in Lucumí, a Yoruba dialect infused with Cuban elements. The drums, considered sacred, have specific roles in communicating with orishas. Lucumí songs comprise rhythmic patterns (toques) and chants (cantos), often tailored to individual orishas. Alongside solemn rituals, drumming parties called bembé are common. Early groups like Coro Yoruba y Tambores Batá and "Coro Negro" paved the way, with notable batá drummers like Pancho Quinto and Francisco Aguabella. María Teresa Linares's work with Conjunto Folklórico Nacional and "Antología de la música afrocubana" expanded exposure to Afro-Cuban traditions. Since the 1990s, groups like Grupo Obá Ilú and Abbilona have globalized Santería music. Notable artists include Celia Cruz and Merceditas Valdés. Santería music coexists with other Afro-Cuban styles like Abakuá and Arará, influencing secular genres like Conga and Rumba cubana, and branching into jazz and Latin rock. Its influence extends across the Caribbean and the USA, where it's increasingly studied and recorded.

Not the best example of the genre, but here's a really fun and listenable album. Cantos, released 2018 by New York based band Okonkolo  
[https://youtu.be/Be1HkydyUv8](https://youtu.be/Be1HkydyUv8)
