---
layout: post
title: "1141:"
date: 2024-02-01
---

Rock & roll, originating in the US and popularized in the 1950s by Chuck Berry, Little Richard, Bill Haley, and Elvis Presley, marked a musical revolution. With the rise of television in the 1940s and 1950s, regional radio stations, notably Alan Freed's broadcasts, introduced Rhythm & Blues to diverse audiences. The transistor's invention made radios portable, contributing to post-WWII youth culture's identification with artists like B.B. King and Ruth Brown, laying the groundwork for rock & roll.

Defined by 12-bar blues, simple phrases, and a blend of Traditional Pop, Country, Gospel, and rhythm & blues, rock & roll fused rhythm & blues' energetic performances with Doo-Wop and Tin Pan Alley's catchy songwriting, resulting in danceable tunes. A significant subgenre, Rockabilly, distinguished itself with acoustic elements and influenced vocals akin to Country Yodeling.

However, by the late 1950s, a series of events, including Little Richard's shift to theology, Elvis Presley's military service, and the tragic deaths of Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens, and Jiles Perry Richardson in 1959, signaled the decline of rock & roll. Alan Freed's payola investigations further tarnished the genre. The aging fanbase, coupled with evolving tastes, led to a permanent decline. While the British Invasion briefly renewed interest in the early 1960s, Garage Rock and Psychedelic Rock soon took over, signaling the end of rock & roll's dominance.

"Tutti Frutti" (1955), one of Richard's signature songs, was an instant hit in the US and UK. His next hit single, "Long Tall Sally" (1956), hit No. 1 on the Billboard Rhythm and Blues Best-Sellers chart, followed by a rapid succession of fifteen more in less than three years.  
[https://youtu.be/F13JNjpNW6c](https://youtu.be/F13JNjpNW6c)  
[https://youtu.be/eFFgbc5Vcbw](https://youtu.be/eFFgbc5Vcbw)  
In 1962, after a five-year period during which Richard abandoned rock and roll music for born-again Christianity, concert promoter Don Arden persuaded him to tour Europe. During this time, the Beatles opened for Richard on some tour dates.
