---
layout: post
title: "1169:"
date: 2024-02-29
---

Noise pop is a style of Indie Rock that arose in the mid-1980s as some British Jangle Pop, Twee Pop, and Post-Punk groups started to use more distortion. An early landmark album for the genre was The Jesus and Mary Chain's 1985 album Psychocandy, defining the style's blend of poppier Rock songwriting and melodies with the dissonant, noisy timbres of distorted guitars and frequent use of guitar feedback. Noise pop's combination of sunny, simple, often Girl Group-esque melodies (hence the 'Pop') with waves of distortion sets it apart from the rawer, less melodic, often haphazard sounds of Noise Rock. The vocals in noise pop also tend to be hazier, dreamier and altogether more melodic and harmonic than in noise rock.

The sound would be one influence on the rise of Shoegaze a few years later, with pioneering groups like My Bloody Valentine blending the distortion of noise pop with the sleepy, reverb-drenched elements of Dream Pop. American groups like The Flaming Lips (and Dinosaur Jr. who dabbled in the genre) would incorporate some of the more raucous, experimental elements of noise rock into their take on the style, even as they kept within the more accessible bounds of noise pop.

In the 1990s, the genre would have a significant influence on and overlap with later forms of indie rock, in particular with the ramshackle, distorted sound of Slacker Rock, embodied by groups like Pavement and Yo La Tengo. In the 2000s and beyond, the impending Garage Rock Revival and a new wave in shoegaze and twee pop saw acts such as The Raveonettes, The Pains of Being Pure at Heart and Best Coast release their own, often self-consciously retro, takes on the noise pop sound.

Here's Two Airships / Exploder Falls is a 2008 album (nearly an EP) by Candy Claws.  
[https://youtu.be/6I8fWWS3Lvw](https://youtu.be/6I8fWWS3Lvw)  
[https://youtu.be/CZcwp2n4yiY](https://youtu.be/CZcwp2n4yiY)

It's a Noise Pop, Neo-Psychedelia, and Indietronica album influenced by Shoegaze. Blissful Noise Pop scratches a brain itch that no other genre does. This album is one of my favorites of the genre.
