---
layout: post
title: "1196:"
date: 2024-03-27
---

Fuji is a genre of Islamic Yoruba Music developed by singers Sikiru Ayinde Barrister and Ayinla Kollington during the late 1960s in Nigeria. Both Barrister and Kollington were formerly singers of ajisaari/wéré, music performed during Ramadan. When Barrister began to incorporate elements from other Islamic styles, namely Apala and sakara, fuji was born. By the early 1970s, a rivalry had been established between Barrister and Kollington, who adopted this style shortly after the former.

In the 1970s, fuji became the most popular genre amongst Yoruba Muslims, succeeding apala. Ever since, the genre has largely become secularized, even though it remains strongly associated with the Muslim community. The instrumentation is composed of a wide variety of percussion instruments, mainly talking drums such as the dundun, which accompany the lead singer. Sekere, maracas and agogô are also typically used. In the late 1970s Kollington began using batá drums, increasing his rivalry with Barrister, who also incorporated batá, but dropped them after complaints from Muslim patrons (batá are played in sacred Yoruba rituals).

In the mid-1980s, the drum kit was introduced due to the influence of Jùjú. Similarly, some bands included pedal steel guitars, synthesizers and drum machines. Other notable influences that make fuji a particularly syncretic style are Yoruba fables and tales, Muslim recitation, Highlife, Christian Hymns and Western Pop. The popularity of fuji peaked during the early 1990s and it remains a successful genre in Nigeria, with singer Wasiu Ayinde Barrister as the third big name in the genre. Younger fuji artists include Adewale Ayuba and Abass Akande Obesere.

Here's New Fuji Garbage by Barrister  
[https://youtu.be/f2kS6uNUacA](https://youtu.be/f2kS6uNUacA)
