---
layout: post
title: "1139:"
date: 2024-01-30
---

Tin Pan Alley defined an era of popular music in the USA during the late 19th and early 20th centuries and pioneered the concept of the 'hit song'. Emerging in New York City, it dominated the sheet music publishing industry before recorded music became commonplace by the 1930s. Songwriters often incorporated influences from the emerging trends of Ragtime and Vaudeville, as well as parlour music and melodramatic ballads, into the popular song format.

Initially, much of Tin Pan Alley's commercial success was derived from sales of sheet music for sentimental ballads and dance music, including Waltzes and Classical Marches. By the 1900s and 1910s, ragtime, Cakewalk and vaudeville featured heavily in Tin Pan Alley pop, whereas by the 1920s, early Jazz and Blues influences became apparent. The songwriters of Tin Pan Alley crafted songs with simple repetition of verses and choruses, making frequent use of the 32-bar form ('AABA') and syncopation. By design, they were usually easy to perform and sing along to, lending themselves to the selling of sheet music and amateur performances on piano. Despite the simplicity of many of the songs, Tin Pan Alley and its associated composers, such as Irving Berlin and George Gershwin, would garner a lasting reputation for creative high-quality music. The most cherished and oft-performed Tin Pan Alley and Broadway songs would go on to make up the 'Great American Songbook', a set of Standards which became recurring staples in the repertoires of the 'crooners' and jazz singers of the 1940s and 1950s.

Here's a track from Hoagy Sings Carmichael, a 1956 album by Hoagy Carmichael.  
[https://youtu.be/FCpb79EceJQ](https://youtu.be/FCpb79EceJQ)  
While still traditional pop, this song obviously leans more towards a vocal jazz style rather than ragtime, vaudeville, etc.

The most popular account holds that the name "Tin Pan Alley" was originally a derogatory reference made by Monroe H. Rosenfeld in the New York Herald to the collective sound made by many "cheap upright pianos" all playing different tunes being reminiscent of the banging of tin pans in an alleyway.

While some consider Tin Pan Alley's end in the 1930s with the rise of recorded music, others extend its existence to the 1950s, aligning it with American popular music pre-Rock & Roll. The UK had its version on Denmark Street in the 1950s. Bob Dylan, referencing the Singer-Songwriter era, claimed in 1985, "Tin Pan Alley is gone, and I put an end to it. People can record their own songs now."
