---
layout: post
title: "941:"
date: 2023-07-16
---

Vapor is a term used to describe an internet-based Electronic musical movement that arose in the early 2010s, beginning with the rise of Vaporwave. The 2010 release of Chuck Person's Eccojams Vol. 1 by Daniel Lopatin under his Chuck Person alias is commonly recognised as the beginning of vaporwave as a genre as well as the vapor movement as a whole (and "eccojams" is sometimes used as a name for this original style). The album would soon be followed by Macintosh Plus's Floral Shoppe and James Ferraro's Far Side Virtual in 2011, bringing greater exposure to the sound of vaporwave and its associated aesthetics.

Vaporwave is a sample-based genre characterised by heavily synthesised and processed manipulation of corporate mood and background (elevator) music; though the source material can also include genres such as Pop, Contemporary R\&B, Synth Funk, Smooth Jazz, and Exotica. Technically it generally consists of brief sketches or motifs altered by utilising Chopped and Screwed editing techniques (slowing down and cutting). Looping, glitching, pitch-bending, panning, and echoing are commonplace editing practices, and many use medium to heavy reverberation to create Ambient pieces out of the source material.

Here's Eccojams Vol. 1, mentioned above  
[Chuck Person \- Eccojams Vol. 1 \[Full Album, Normal Speed\]](https://youtu.be/unN7QvSWSTo)

The chronology of vapor subgenres is somewhat unclear to me, so the order of these recs will be more or less random.
