---
layout: post
title: "907:"
date: 2023-06-12
---

Hardcore Punk

Hardcore punk, not to be confused with "Hardcore \[punk\]", is a derivation of Punk Rock that appeared in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Hardcore initially borrowed much from punk's original music framework and energy and made it faster, heavier and more aggressive, while retaining punk's anti-establishment image and DIY ethics/practices. Other common characteristics include an extensive use of yelling and/or screaming, a stripped-down style of production (also inherited from many earlier punk acts) and the prevalence of short-length songs.

The genre would eventually splinter into other subgenres and derivative forms in a similar manner as punk rock did, some of which still remain rooted in the original Hardcore \[Punk\] style. The interest of several hardcore punk musicians in various Metal genres played an important role in the creation of various new styles, exemplified by Crossover Thrash, Crust Punk, Grindcore, Metalcore, and New York Hardcore. The dissatisfaction of various hardcore-rooted and associated musicians by the constraints of the genre and their growing attention for diverse forms of music (including Jazz, Experimental Rock, Dub, Funk and Post-Punk) derived in the creation of Post-Hardcore (already covered), which sought to experiment with the hardcore template and dynamics. The focus given by some bands to melodic exploration would result in Melodic Hardcore. Beatdown Hardcore would be the result of much slower tempos and increased breakdowns.

Dead Kennedys was one of the defining punk bands during its initial eight-year run. Here's a track from their 1980 hardcore punk album Fresh Fruit for Rotting Vegetables  
[Holiday in Cambodia](https://youtu.be/nrm2B0lhvYc)
