---
layout: post
title: "946:"
date: 2023-07-21
---

Muzakcore

Muzakcore is an informal yet integral subgenre of vaporwave. Whereas much of vaporwave has been characterised as hazy or even noisy, muzakcore admonishes this approach and achieves a clean sound. It is noted for sounding sterile, inoffensive, corporate, and even basic. The name comes from the vague grouping of music it draws inspiration from, muzak, which is commonly described as music for commercial settings. Whereas mallsoft is ethereal, post-internet becoming a technological psychedelia, muzakcore is the sounds we are accustomed to and experience all too often. Not surprisingly, this can be a little uncanny for listeners.

Despite being greatly linked in aesthetic to most vaporwave in some manner, muzakcore in the strictest sense is scarce. However, the few releases that constitute it have been some of vaporwave's most lauded albums.

Here's the prolific James Ferraro's 2011 album Far Side Virtual.  
[James Ferraro : Far Side Virtual](https://youtu.be/pd-uSm8ittU)  
considered one of the vaporwave greats, coming right at the advent of vaporwave. Far Side Virtual is a culmination of Ferraro's culture jamming put to audio. Although this album is often cited for its influence, this may be due to more aesthetic purposes than actual sound; few vaporwave releases share the sterile sampling and retrospective optimism that this release bears. In this regard, it's hard to regard this as a strict vaporwave release but the elements are definitely there. This is probably muzakcore in its purest form.

Also, here's 札幌コンテンポラリー (Sapporo Contemporary), a 2012 album from 情報デスクVIRTUAL \[Jouhou Desk VIRTUAL\], yet another Vektroid alias (he's got at least 19).  
[情報デスクVIRTUAL : 札幌コンテンポラリー](https://youtu.be/iD0JpqGQY1o)  
In a way, Vektroid returns to her Laserdisc Visions roots by resorting to curatorial sampling with little alteration. This release is almost entirely that, smooth jazz tracks sometimes slowed down. Very cohesive, lending itself to that corporate feel.
