---
layout: post
title: "951:"
date: 2023-07-26
---

VHS Pop (deprecated definition)

An older understanding of VHS Pop sees is as a loosely-defined subgenre or scene of Vaporwave, best considered a dancier, more energetic, and crisp version of Late Nite Lo-fi's 80s jazz and pop sampling. The sound often contains some mix of classical Vaporwave elements with influences from ranging from Synthwave, Chillwave, instrumental Hip-Hop, House, and more \- generally, samples are paired with original drum patterns to create a more vibrant and upbeat tone, which led its evolution into the feel-good Future Funk.  Aesthetically, VHS Pop creates images including but not limited to big cities, bright lights, luxury, 80s clubs and jukeboxes, etc, as well as the liminal late night radio and television sorts of moods from its parent Late Nite Lo-fi.

The genre's definition has been notably fluid over time, adopting multiple different popular uses including a more-recent classification for Vaporwave-influenced, non-Vaportrap instrumental Hip-Hop.  
   
Surfing's 2012 album Deep Fantasy  
[S U R F I N G : Deep Fantasy](https://youtu.be/sPRa6IDMxD8)  
Also considered Chillwave.

Also, here's a single from Dreams West's self-titled 2011 album.  
[Dreams West \- I Wish I Was Thomas Bangalter](https://youtu.be/P9zX8RHWLFQ)

Again, a more upbeat or feel-good tone. Definitely somewhere between Future Funk and Hypnagogic Pop. I sometimes feel like the original appeal of vaporwave is lost by albums in this genre, maybe because I feel like they try to do two opposite things at the same time.
