---
layout: post
title: "945:"
date: 2023-07-20
---

Future Funk

Future Funk can be considered second-wave vaporwave, starting around late summer 2012, vaporwave with a more dancey approach. This may have been due to the surge in popularity from Floral Shoppe, particularly the track "リサフランク420 / 現代のコンピュー" (you know it), which in turn caused many new vaporwave producers to sample primarily 80s music. At this point, vaporwave began distancing from the post-internet tendencies of its beginning and as such, a simultaneous split and transformation for the genre occurred when a new crop of artists took centre stage.

Backlash against this trend and vaporwave as a whole caused the derogatory term "broporwave" to be applied (in reference to a perceived similar bastardization of dubstep called "brostep"). This type of vaporwave-esque music is characterised by sampling of 70s or 80s dance/disco music, sometimes with a beat applied. The level of manipulation runs the gamut but the result is typically a dancey track. More often than not, the term "broporwave" is used to slander vaporwave that may not necessarily fall under the distinction (vaporwave made with little manipulation, etc.).

Here's Saint Pepsi's 2013 album Hit Vibes  
[SAINT PEPSI \- Hit Vibes (FULL ALBUM)](https://youtu.be/3r2zleGxv7w)

Saint Pepsi is undeniably one of the go-to names when it comes to vaporwave \- despite there being significant aesthetic differences from original vaporwave. His sound is greatly associated with the advent of future funk, stemming from his association with Fortune 500 and dancier tracks that were emblematic of a shift in the genre. Hit Vibes is arguably his biggest release, gaining much attention from independent music sites. The clear french house influence, apparent on earlier releases, is lush and the whole album is pretty cohesive. With the strictest vaporwave definitions, this would be rather distant but for what it is, it's definitely one of the biggest early future funk albums.

Here's a more recent future funk album as well, All Together Now\! by CHANCE デラソウル. released 2019\.  
[CHANCE デラソウル : All Together Now\!](https://youtu.be/p-ZtyreRIkM)
