---
layout: post
title: "903:"
date: 2023-06-08
---

No Wave

No wave was an underground, avant-garde, anti-art movement and music scene that emerged in New York City's decaying Downtown during the late 1970s, closely related to Post-Punk. The original, short-lived scene hailed from the pre-gentrified SoHo art world and working-class East Village/Lower East Side neighbourhoods, encompassing bands that were active between 1976 and 1980\. The Brian Eno-produced No New York compilation was one of the first studio albums that propelled their recognition, gaining attention from labels ZE Records, Lust/Unlust Music and ROIR; however, few left recordings behind.

Here's that No New York compilation, released 1978\. Not like Eno's other stuff.  
[Various Artists \- No New York](https://youtu.be/nul3A0pS_oc)

Given its experimental nature, no wave music changed a lot during its brief existence but often delved into atonality, dissonance, non-unified tempos, abrasiveness, angularity, buzzing guitars and skronk, tribal drumming, etc. The vocal delivery was part of this sonic assault as well, with misanthropic, sexual, alienating, abstract and dadaist lyrics drawing from Beat Generation authors such as William Burroughs, who popularised the cut-up technique. Influenced by Fluxus and Viennese Actionism, some bands adopted a transgressive and confrontational performance style, interacting with the audience or even engaging in violent physical altercations, thus blurring — when not shattering — the performer/audience barrier.

Pushing the idiomatic limits of the genre, no wave artists explored a diverse array of cutting-edge music genres that appealed to their experimental traits, such as Free Improvisation, Industrial Music, Totalism or Electronic. Mars, DNA and Red Transistor experimented with Noise music, playing a pivotal role in the development of Noise Rock, which I won't be talking about in this series.

Another no wave album, The Ascension by Glenn Branca, from 1981  
[Glenn Branca \- The Ascension (1981, Full Album, High Quality)](https://youtu.be/JeYMC8g6pZ4)  
This one is also described as Totalism, a genre that adds complex rhythmic structures and emphasis on surface energy to Minimalism.
