---
layout: post
title: "918:"
date: 2023-06-23
---

Celtic Punk

Celtic punk is a style of Folk Punk that specifically infuses the sounds of Celtic Folk Music into Punk Rock. Celtic punk can run the spectrum of punk with small accents of Celtic folk to pure Celtic folk played with the intensity of punk. While Irish Folk Music is the predominant Celtic influence, there are groups that borrow from Scottish Folk Music (The Real McKenzies), Breton Celtic Folk Music (Les Ramoneurs de menhirs) and other forms of Celtic folk music.

The genre was first popularised in the 1980s by The Pogues who blended the speed and aggression of punk rock with traditional Irish folk music. It commonly uses standard punk instrumentation with the addition of traditional Celtic instruments such as fiddle, accordion, tin whistle and bagpipes. Lyrics typically centre around labour movements, politics, the Irish diaspora and drinking. Lively covers of traditional folk songs are also popular.

Prominent regional scenes exist in the British Isles, North America and Australia, especially in cities with large Irish populations. The importance of Celtic punk in the larger punk genre can be seen in the tremendous successes of Boston's Dropkick Murphys who came to be one of the biggest punk bands of the 2000s. Other important Celtic punk bands include Flogging Molly, The Tossers and The Mahones.

Here's a song from The Pogues' 1988 album If I Should Fall From Grace With God  
[Fairytale of New York (feat. Kirsty MacColl)](https://youtu.be/YBM156DuxvA)  
In the UK, "Fairytale of New York" is the most-played Christmas song of the 21st century. It is frequently cited as the best Christmas song of all time in various television, radio, and magazine-related polls in the UK and Ireland.
