---
layout: post
title: "916:"
date: 2023-06-21
---

Grindcore

Grindcore is a subgenre of extreme Metal and Hardcore \[Punk\] featuring a highly aggressive and chaotic sound characterised by a diverse palette of intense techniques, like sixteenth-note blast and skank beats, down-tuned guitars alternating between tremolo-picked power chords and groovier down-picked sections, and vocal styles ranging from loud shouts and growls to grating screams and shrieks. Grindcore is infamously known for its drastically shortened song structures, dubbed "microsongs," where songs usually track for less than a minute. Lyrically, it features a rebellious and vulgar attitude as it often focuses on anti-establishment and anti-religious topics and gory, Slasher-inspired, and sometimes sexual imagery. The term emerged as a synonym for the British "thrash."

Grindcore's origins stem from the early 1980s United Kingdom and the United States, where Punk and metal scenes began to cross over frequently, progressively intensifying their sounds. The earliest grind bands cite Thrashcore's Cryptic Slaughter and Siege as significant influences. Various extreme metal acts representing the nascent sounds of Thrash Metal, Death Metal, and first-wave Black Metal, including Slayer, Possessed, and Celtic Frost, were additional inspirations to extremizing early bands' styles. One of grindcore's pioneers, Napalm Death, also cited Swans as a significant influence due to their intense, oppressive, and loud stage presence.

In the 1990s, various bands took the grindcore blueprint in different directions. Anal Cunt doubled down on the anti-musical aspects of early Noisecore and pioneered the particularly abrasive style known as "noisegrind." Agathocles and Gut formed as, respectively, the earliest Mincecore and Pornogrind acts and employed a more punk-driven, groovier and slower style and utilised more straightforward drum beats and highly pitch-shifted vocals.

From Pig Destroyer's 2004 album Terrifyer  
[Gravedancer](https://youtu.be/vHWJWWdyweo)

Moving away from Anarcho-Punk.
