---
layout: post
title: "839:"
date: 2023-04-05
---

Drinking Songs is a 2005 Contemporary Folk, Singer-Songwriter, Slowcore album by Matt Elliot. It takes inspirations from several sources, and can be classified in sub-genres such as Avant-Folk, Atmospheric Drum and Bass, Chamber Folk, and Dark Cabaret.

Matthew Murphy contributed a well-written article on Pitchfork reviewing the album here.  
[https://pitchfork.com/reviews/albums/2755-drinking-songs/](https://pitchfork.com/reviews/albums/2755-drinking-songs/)

"As indicated by its title and dissolute Parisian artwork, Drinking Songs is an album steeped heavily in spirits, both alcoholic and otherwise. On these tracks, Elliott seems to address the world from the sunless interior of an absinthe glass, with his rarified instrumental arrangements serving as the only thin balm available to keep his subjects from capsizing hopelessly into the ink-black, fathomless depths.

Marinated in café piano, mournful strings, and delicate guitar, Drinking Songs follows The Mess We Made as another hard step away from the atmospheric jungle textures of Third Eye Foundation"  
[C. F. Bundy.](https://youtu.be/b9YYXaOaXAU)

"With this album, Elliott has drawn inspiration from Eastern European folk and cabaret music, his stately compositions achieving a melancholic drama similar to Tom Waits or the Bad Seeds at their most theatrically downtrodden. What frequently sets Elliott apart, however, are his cascading, impressionistic vocals, as on the sanguine "The Guilty Party", where his layered voices recede almost imperceptibly into the background until barely distinguishable from the rest of his quietly nodding solo orchestra."

A similar effect is heard on this track, Trying to Explain

[Trying to Explain](https://youtu.be/VSJLc8TVav4)

"'The Maid We Messed' is an extended collage of deconstructed excerpts from the preceding seven songs. Across the album's sole programmed drum break, this track has the feel of a hungover man attempting to recreate the events of the previous evening, its scattered fragments of memory providing a suitably disorienting conclusion to Elliott's ethereal, unsettling collection. This is the song which lends to the Atmospheric Drum and Bass classification I mentioned, and is my favourite off the album."  
[The Maid We Messed](https://youtu.be/fFKNDMK-aE4)

The rest of the album is of a consistently high quality.
