---
layout: post
title: "891:"
date: 2023-05-27
---

Gospel is music with Christian lyrics, most often emphasizing the same New Testament themes as the four books of the new testament known as the gospels. Because the lyrics are so central to the genre, the singers are as well. Most styles of gospel emphasize harmony singing, often interchanged with solos by a lead vocalist.

Gospel derives from at least three distinct cultural traditions. A well known variation of gospel is Traditional Black Gospel, which arose out of the traditions of Spirituals and Blues. Concurrently, Southern Gospel evolved from Hymns, originally as small family groups of white evangelical Protestants and later as quartets. Both traditional black gospel and southern gospel emphasize the vocals, which may be either exuberant or mournful with themes of praise or repentance.

The transition from gospel singer to popular secular singing was not uncommon for traditional black gospel performers. Many Contemporary R\&B singers such as Whitney Houston also got their start singing gospel music. In the 21st century, the traditional genres of gospel have been eclipsed by more modern subgenres, which most do not consider to be gospel. These include CCM and Christian Hip Hop.

Gospel music has found widespread popularity across the Christian world. In particular, the genre has grown to be one of the most popular styles of music in Christian Africa. In Africa, gospel retains its vocal-focused character, with choirs indebted to church singing often backing a strong lead vocalist. It also takes strong influence from a wide range of local music, both in the music, such as using Highlife-influenced backing in Ghana and west Africa, and in the vocal performances, such as South African gospel choirs taking influence from Mbube.

Here's track from Pastor T.L. Barrett and the Youth for Christ Choir's 1971 album Like a Ship... (Without a Sail)  
[Like a Ship](https://youtu.be/wh-oge3eaUg)
