---
layout: post
title: "864:"
date: 2023-04-30
---

Jongo is an Afro-Brazilian cultural manifestation involving the music and dance associated with it, primarily brought to Brazil by the Buntu people. Due to its comprehensive diffusion among the Brazilian territory, this genre is marked for high diversity of styles of dance and instrumentation, yet they are all share the same characteristics of the dynamic nature of jongo. The genre is well considered to be the "grandfather" of Samba.

The musical accompaniment is exclusively composed of percussion instruments, serving as base rhythm to the dance. Chants are denominated pontos, which could be considered as subtle, metaphoric, sung poetry. They are subdivided in various types, each one with different functions. There are the abertura and encerramento, used to initiate and conclude the jongo round, respectively; visaria or bizarria, lyrics mentioning situations of the everyday routine; and demanda or gurumenta, a form of intimidation and challenge. Analog to the capoeira dance, it was believed that pontos were used as a form of disguised speech among the African slaves, bypassing the possibility of their owners knowing the content of their talking.

The jongo round is formed by the following dynamic: one of the jongueiros (jongo performers) starts singing a ponto, which is repeated by the the other performers and musicians. Once the first jongueiro allows, the music is stopped, then another jogueiro starts a new ponto in response to the previous one. Once he finishes it, the music restarts. This cycle goes on as long as the performance continues. Improvisation is a high point for the pontos, since they should be always related to the previous performed ponto. If one of the singers fails to meet a proper or good response, the present people usually announce his failure through made-up faints and body paralysis, or imitations of farm animals.

From Clementina de Jesus and Doca Geraldo Filme's 1982 album O canto dos escravos  
[Clementina de Jesus \- Canto II (Canto dos Escravos)](https://youtu.be/VEACH4bJkHQ)  
This also belongs to the genre of Candomblé music
