---
layout: post
title: "934:"
date: 2023-07-09
---

Krautrock is a subgenre coined by the British music press to refer to West German progressive and experimental groups of the late 1960s and early 1970s. Although these artists could differ wildly, they were unified in their attempt to take the energy of Anglo-American Rock music and distance it from its Rhythm & Blues roots, instead drawing inspiration from other sources.

The genre's diverse musical characteristics are primarily unified by a desire to push beyond the song structure and instrumentation of conventional Rock. Many groups embraced repetitive jams, hypnotic or mechanical rhythms (i.e. the commonly-used 4/4 "motorik" beat), and an Electronic sound (including early synthesisers or tape-based Musique concrète techniques). Some leaned more toward improvisatory Space Rock or Jazz-Rock, while others strayed closer to early Ambient music or drew from non-western sources.

While "Krautrock" has come to be accepted as the general term for this music, it was (and is) perceived by some as derogatory or unserious, since "kraut" is an ethnic slur against Germans. As a result, some so-called Krautrock groups instead referred to their music as Kosmische Musik ("cosmic music").

Ege Bamyası is a 1972 album by seminal Krautrock band Can. On RYM, the 3 highest-ranked Krautrock albums are all by Can.

One highlight of this band their drummer Jaki Liebezeit, who is able to expertly meld the funky and cerebral.

Here's a longer track. Vocals by Damo Suzuki  
[CAN \- Pinch (1972)](https://youtu.be/L1iyRV_7waE)

Here's a shorter track with fewer vocals that really highlights the drumming  
[CAN \- Vitamin C (Official Audio)](https://youtu.be/YmN9oHa3ZIQ)
