---
layout: post
title: "851:"
date: 2023-04-17
---

빨간 플러그 (Redplug) by    나의머리카락뭉치 \[Myhairball\], released 2007

This one takes more from the sombre songwriting and slow tempos of slowcore. It could also be called dream pop. Again, pretty mellow, but this one has more of an angsty, lonely and melancholic feeling to me.  
[나의머리카락뭉치 (Myhairball) \- 빨간플러그 (Redplug) \[2007\] Full Album](https://youtu.be/ZOXzgXJOeKQ)

The YT video has a nice description on the music/artist and how the uploader discovered them:  
"There’s this Korean music site, millim.com, where little known musicians share their work with the public in the form of free downloads. While browsing this site, every now and then one comes across a real gem – someone that makes music so fantastic it’s impossible to understand that no record company has been clever enough to make a deal. It was thanks to orienkorean that I first came across the music of 나의머리카락뭉치, “My Hair Ball”, one of those millim gems. With much assistance from icq4ever (Donghoon Yi) and translation help from Yina Kim, an e-mail interview was set up and I got to learn more about this all too unknown man.

나의머리카락뭉치’s musical story began when he watched a live concert with Japanese rock band L’Arc～en～Ciel. It made him want to play guitar in “a hazy notion”. Shortly thereafter he saw an acoustic live concert with Oasis, which prompted him to buy a used guitar. The confidence to start making music on his own came from listening to Korean indie musician Denci Hinji, as he realized that great music could be made without an arsenal of great tools. He started out in 2002, took a hiatus to do his military service and returned in 2005 as 나의머리카락뭉치:

'The original goal was to remember my 20’s when I get older. It started with the idea of a time casual; to remember what I used to think about, what kind of sensibilities I had. My original goal was to capture the fading self. (I made music only for myself in the beginning.) However my goal has changed a bit. My recent goal is to have more people listen to my music and agree on my sensibilities and thoughts.'"
