---
layout: post
title: "837:"
date: 2023-04-03
---

Boogaloo is a Hispanic American Music style that emerged in New York City in the early 1960s, before reaching the height of its popularity later on in the decade. It fuses American Rhythm & Blues and Jazz with Son cubano and frequent African American culture terminology to create an upbeat crossover style that appealed to both Latin American and African American communities.

Ray Barretto, Willie Bobo and Mongo Santamaría were releasing music in the style as early as 1963, though the term 'Boogaloo' was coined later, circa 1965\. In 1966, the genre exploded with songs such as Joe Cuba's "Bang Bang" and Pete Rodriguez's "I Like it Like That" and rivalled Mambo and Salsa's popularity in NYC for a brief period in the late 1960s. Cuba, Rodriguez, Willie Colón, Joe Bataan and Johnny Colon were popular performers in the style.

Boogaloo emulates the sounds of a party, with funky rhythms, handclaps and excited voices. Common instruments include piano, trumpet, saxophone, double bass, congas, bongos, güiro and timbales. As well as a music genre, the boogaloo evolved as a separate dance, showcasing strange, contorted movements. It effectively replaced the Pachanga dance and aided the evolution of breakdancing in the early 1980s. Pachanga was also a closely related music style which was popular in the NYC in the early 1960s, combining Latin styles such as Merengue and Cumbia.

Here's a couple songs from Ray Barretto's 1968 Boogaloo album Acid  
[A Deeper Shade Of Soul](https://youtu.be/cgkBWTUG_yc)  
[Acid](https://youtu.be/zHPea_3HVzA)

Raymundo "Ray" Barretto Pagán was an American percussionist and bandleader of Puerto Rican descent. Barretto became one of the leading exponents of boogaloo and what would later be known as salsa. A master of the descarga (improvised jam session), Barretto was a long-time member of the Fania All-Stars.
