---
layout: post
title: "846:"
date: 2023-04-12
---

Atrocity Exhibition is an Experimental/Hardcore/Abstract/Industrial Hip Hop by Danny Brown, and his best known. Released 2016\.

On RYM the album is ranked \#1 for 2016, \#46 overall. Pretty deserving of that position imo. despite the grim atmosphere, the creative production is realy fun to listen to.

From blurrytoddler's RYM review:  
"Combining the sounds of post-punk, techno, and soul into unsettling and jarring hip-hop creates a grim, unpredictable, and anxiety-inducing atmosphere that reflects Brown’s fluctuating mental state. From euphoria to absolute despair, Atrocity Exhibition’s production evokes the feelings of paranoia and anxiety on display in Brown’s lyricism.

One of the most talented wordsmiths of the 2010s, Brown is an expert at depicting dark, complex themes through intricate wordplay and unorthodox flows. Behind his characteristically nasally delivery lies beautifully penned stories of a deeply troubled soul; there is an overwhelming sense of helplessness as we hear how deeply entrenched these self-destructive behaviors are in his everyday life. The odds are stacked against him and he knows no other way than the way he has always operated; drowning the pain in copious amounts of drugs is more comforting than facing the reality of a world surrounded by darkness."

Apparently he spent 70k on the samples for this album, and he's still in debt from it lol

A couple where he puts on the recognizable loud, abrasive voice  
[Ain't It Funny](https://youtu.be/8-d65oe8s1E)  
[White Lines](https://youtu.be/IsvNxHeOEJs)

A couple where he towns down the voice  
[Tell Me What I Don't Know](https://youtu.be/Yd2z3_xNnLc)  
[From the Ground](https://youtu.be/lZww9qtSqJw)
