---
layout: post
title: "992:"
date: 2023-09-05
---

Here's a rather surreal album from James Ferraro (see rec 946 on Muzakcore).

James Ferraro's 2009 album KFC City 3099: Pt.1 Toxic Spill  
[James Ferraro \- KFC City 3099: Pt.1 Toxic Spill \[Full album\]](https://youtu.be/lzGpWfFB7aw)

It has been described as Sound Collage, Hypnagogic Pop, Radio Drama, Industrial, Drone, Noise, Ambient, Synth Punk, and Tribal Ambient, among others.

User anthy on RYM posted a good review of the album: "paints a strong picture of a dilapidated urban city as seen through the eyes of one of the many, many security cameras that dot its miles upon miles of concrete monoliths, puddles of corrosive waste, plumes of smoke from both burning cars and dumpster fires alike, and smog so thick you can barely save yourself from choking on it. 80s retrofuturism by way of dystopia, kfc city is a place where corporations are so powerful they control cities, a la robocop's detroit. crime is ubiquitous, normalised to the point where it's become part & parcel of daily life. kill and steal so you can buy Glue™ which just makes you want to kill and steal, perpetuating an endless cycle that your life means little in the machinations of. everything is broken, or perhaps everything is working as intended. either way, kfc city lives on in undeath, eating itself from the inside out."

Here's an excerpt of the lyrics from track 2:  
Hey you\! Why you always throwing trash?  
Ah\!  
Get out of my pipe\!  
Give me \[a minute/humans\] please.  
Was this your family? I'm guessing that's your daughter. How cute.  
Hey, guys, let's set him on fire\!  
Oh, ah\! Please\! Please\!  
Yeaahhh.  
(police sirens)  
Oh, bloody hell-  
(gunshots)  
Ah\!

How much for a rat-burger?  
99 cents sir.  
Are you crazy? For a rat-burger?  
Just doing my job, man.  
(gunshots) I don't think so.  
Let's go to KFC, man.  
You know what guys? How bout we just spray up everyone in this place?  
You in?  
Yeah\! Hahaheheheheh\!  
Killer. Hand me my Uzi.  
(screams)  
God, I feel so alive\!  
Welcome to the Toxic Playground.  
Hand over your wallet, buddy.
