---
layout: post
title: "970:"
date: 2023-08-14
---

Space rock is a genre derived from Psychedelic Rock. It was pioneered by Pink Floyd in the late 1960s and gained popularity in the early 1970s with bands like Hawkwind and, to a lesser extent, bands from the English Progressive Rock and German Krautrock scenes such as Gong and Ash Ra Tempel. Space rock bands make heavy use of synthesisers and guitar effects to create dense atmospheric soundscapes intended to evoke images of outer space and science fiction scenarios. The songs are highly repetitive and usually involve Jam Band-style improvisation, especially when performed live.

Here's a track from Gong's 1973 album Flying Teapot  
[Radio Gnome Invisible (Remastered 2018\)](https://youtu.be/glYhFaIxkFo)

Space rock experienced a revival of sorts in the late 1980s, when Neo-Psychedelia bands such as Spacemen 3 and Loop created a new sound using elements from space rock. This new genre is partially influenced by Drone music, and tends to be less concerned with astronomy and sci-fi compared to the old bands.

Neo-psychedelia is a broad term referring to developments in Psychedelia since the early 1980s, building on the drug-inspired styles developed in the 1960s. The term initially referred to Post-Punk (rec 901\) and Jangle Pop (rec 711\) artists who brought in influence from Psychedelic Pop and Psychedelic Rock. Through the decade, neo-psychedelia would parallel developments in Alternative Rock, including a mid-1980s scene in California known as the Paisley Underground (rec 712), and a Space Rock Revival (next rec) led by groups like Spacemen 3 and Loop. In the late 1980s, it would also contribute to the psychedelic sound of the Baggy (713) scenes, which combined a surreal sonic environment with the upbeat rhythms of Alternative Dance and rave culture.

The 1990s featured several strains of neo-psychedelia, though all still remained rooted in Rock. In the UK, Shoegaze (rec 545\) built on neo-psychedelic techniques and the similarly reverbed Dream Pop, along with the guitar distortion of Noise Pop, to become its own fully fledged genre.

The focus of neo-psychedelia would shift in the 2000s, with greater use of Electronic instruments, synthesisers, and effects. At the same time, Ariel Pink's Haunted Graffiti and James Ferraro defined an offshoot of neo-psychedelia that would come to be known as Hypnagogic Pop, whose grimy, lo-fi sound hearkened back to the 1980s. In the 2010s, neo-psychedelia continued to be a force in alternative and even popular music, as artists like MGMT and Tame Impala found major success. The more electronic side of the genre would also be a major influence on the rise of Chillwave, which in turn was an influence on the dreamy, reverb-laden sound of Cloud Rap
