---
layout: post
title: "900:"
date: 2023-06-05
---

Punk Rock

Punk rock formed in the US, UK, and Australia in the mid-1970s in response to commercial and sentimental rock music. While it has its roots in 1960s America with Proto-Punk and Garage Rock, it didn't fully take off and become what is known as punk rock until the mid-1970s with groups such as Ramones, Sex Pistols, and The Clash (see rec 9). Although punk rock mainly had mainstream success in the United Kingdom in its earliest days, there were a few exceptions and it had a huge underground and cult following worldwide.

Punk rock is characterised by fast tempos, loud and distorted riffs, simple songs, frequent use of power chords, and shouted vocals. Many groups feature variations on these characteristics, but most early groups retained them. The genre takes heavy influence from Rock & Roll, Garage Rock, and Surf Rock with lesser influence from plenty of other genres. Punk rock lyrics are typically very aggressive and confrontational, and deal with topics considered taboo in mainstream music. Although many groups frequently include light-hearted or comedic lyrics, the anger experienced by many punks is the main focus. While the punk aesthetic is stereotyped by mohawks, piercings, leather jackets, and jeans, it is actually extremely diverse and ranges from the minimalistic look of skinheads to the androgynous Patti Smith, and to the aforementioned stereotypical look.

Here's God Save The Queen, by Sex Pistols, released 1977  
[Sex Pistols \- God Save the Queen](https://youtu.be/RvMxqcgBhWQ)  
I mentioned this song on rec 627\. Some interesting trivia: The most expensive single ever sold on Discogs, the most prominent online marketplace for music rarities, was a “God Save The Queen” record on the A\&M label, from a batch that was supposed to have been destroyed after the group left the label, which sold for $21,123 (CAD) in November 2018\.

Subgenres of punk-rock proliferated incredibly fast, much like an explosion. Genres diverged and remerged in less than decades. There's lots of ways to organize this into an order, but chronologically probably makes less sense than through branches of similarity. Thus, Ill try to go through most of the big ones by going (roughly) chronologically through each major branch of development from the "generic" Punk-Rock sound of those like Sex Pistols and Ramones, with the earliest branches to arise first, only mentioning remerged genres after prerequisites have already been mentioned.
