---
layout: post
title: "990:"
date: 2023-09-03
---

Steven Paul Smith, known professionally as Elliott Smith, was an American musician and singer-songwriter. He was born in Omaha, Nebraska, raised primarily in Texas, and lived much of his life in Portland, Oregon, where he gained popularity. Smith's primary instrument was the guitar, though he also played piano, clarinet, bass guitar, drums, and harmonica. He had a distinctive vocal style, characterised by his "whispery, spiderweb-thin delivery," and often used multi-tracking to create vocal layers, textures, and harmonies.

Smith was a heavy drinker and drug user, and was diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and depression. His struggles with drugs and mental illness affected his life and work, and often appeared in his lyrics. In 2003, aged 34, he died in Los Angeles, California, from two stab wounds to the chest. The autopsy evidence did not determine whether the wounds were self-inflicted. At the time of his death, Smith was working on his sixth studio album, From a Basement on the Hill, which was posthumously produced and released in 2004\.

I listened through a couple of his albums recently at Dom's recommendation. Here are the most popular tracks off of those.

From his 1998 album XO  
[Waltz \#2 (XO)](https://youtu.be/RWn9ocrMhlE)

From his 1997 album Either / Or. It happens that this album is \#4 for 1997, \#60 overall.  
[Between the Bars (remastered)](https://youtu.be/2FmYzACF-kg)

Beautiful songwriting and depressive lyrics make for a blissfully melancholic sound. I felt deeply engaged throughout both these albums, and I'll be revisiting them in the future.
