---
layout: post
title: "897:"
date: 2023-06-02
---

Harry Partch was an American composer, music theorist, and creator of unique musical instruments. He composed using scales of unequal intervals in just intonation (aka pure intonation, musical intervals as whole number ratios), and was one of the first 20th-century composers in the West to work systematically with microtonal scales, alongside Lou Harrison.

Here's one of his albums, The World Of Harry Partch, from 1969  
[Harry Partch ‎- The World Of Harry Partch (1969) FULL ALBUM](https://youtu.be/WrJDdt5OS_Y)

Here's part of his artist description on Spotify:

The child of former missionaries, composer Harry Partch grew up in a musical family, and at an early age taught himself to play the guitar, harmonium, clarinet, and other instruments. During his early school years in Arizona and New Mexico he had some rudimentary music lessons, which he found unexciting and conventional. He wrote a considerable amount of music as a youth, but set it all afire in a pot-bellied stove around 1930\.

Partch's intensive studies in music history and intonation led him to reject conventional Western tunings and musical techniques. He devised a 43-note octave, and started adapting and building instruments to perform the new kind of music he was envisioning. Employment was hard to come by in those years, and Partch spent the Depression wandering the United States as a hobo, doing occasional odd jobs. Those experiences are reflected in his early works Barstow \-- 8 Hitchhiker Inscriptions from a Highway Railing at Barstow, California (1941) and U.S. Highball \-- A Musical Account of a Transcontinental Hobo Trip (1943).

Over the next three-plus decades, Partch created dozens of new reed, string, and percussion instruments using a variety of materials including found objects like artillery shell casings, Pyrex jars, bottles, and old fuel tanks.
