---
layout: post
title: "925:"
date: 2023-06-30
---

Street Punk

Street punk is an Oi\!-driven style of Hardcore Punk that implements catchy melodies, group vocals, and aggressive elements to create a unique sound from the influence of these two genres. The genre emerged from the UK's late 1970s Oi\! scene and took form from the vague UK82 movement. The melodic yet aggressive style rapidly grew in the UK during the 1980s and was represented by bands such as The Exploited, G.B.H, and Oi Polloi, while modern bands remained faithful to the sound and aesthetic, like The Casualties. The earliest acts of this style were forged as a countermovement against prior Punk Rock bands, as they saw the intentions of punk to be a more rebellious style and did so through more aggressive songwriting. The style was directly influential to emerging Metal at the time, especially NWOBHM. With the exception of Motörhead, there was a division between the Punk and metal scenes; however, the influence from both would lead to more metallic infused hardcore punk styles.

From Charged G.B.H 1982 album City Baby Attacked by Rats  
[Charged G.B.H. \- Sick Boy](https://youtu.be/6HqRi4a50rE)

This album is also considered UK82. UK82 was a UK Punk scene in the early 1980s that started as a musical movement. Street Punk bands, such as The Exploited and G.B.H, were formed to counter the previous wave of Punk Rock through rebellious themes, imagery, and lyrics. The name of the scene comes from a song off the album Troops of Tomorrow by The Exploited. During this time, the scene gravitated toward the melodic sound of 1970s Oi\! and the modern aggression of Hardcore Punk growing in the US from this time period.

Also, As British bands pushed the third wave into fusions of 2 tone and Oi\!, North American bands also went in a harder direction, mixing Hardcore Punk with ska to create Skacore. I covered these on recs 723 to 727\.
