---
layout: post
title: "917:"
date: 2023-06-22
---

Folk Punk

Folk punk describes Punk with any kind of Folk influence. The most common influences are Celtic Folk Music (Celtic Punk), Romani Folk Music and Balkan Folk Music (Gypsy Punk), but folk punk in general is not limited to any specific regional style. The instrumentation of folk punk can be as varied as its influences.

The genre emerged in the early 1980s in the UK, most notably with Irish-British bands who mixed traditional Irish songs with the aggressiveness of punk music. Due to the influence of Irish culture and a big Irish minority in some parts of the US, their Celtic style of folk punk was later adopted and expanded by Irish-American and American bands.

Other non-Irish minorities have had an impact on the development of folk punk in the US as well. Formed in NY in 1999 by a Ukrainian-born leader Eugene Hütz, the band Gogol Bordello has seen a couple of line-up changes, including musicians with Israeli, Romanian, Russian, Belarusian, Scottish, Ethiopian, Ecuadoran, British and Chinese descent, as well as several American artists. The multicultural background of folk punk has helped it spread throughout Europe, attracting more and more diverse regional folk punk hybrids.

Another branch of folk punk developed in the 1980s in the US, a style that was closer to Contemporary Folk-influenced Folk Rock. Violent Femmes are commonly cited as a big influence on the development of this style. This mix of acoustic instrumentation and punk rock was not much different from the Country-related genre of Cowpunk. The lyrics and vocal style of this brand of folk punk are often similar to the quirky, whimsical, childlike style of Anti-Folk, which partially retains the edginess, rebelliousness and simplicity of punk rock, but it does not normally use the typical punk rock instrumentation.

Here's Violent Femmes' self-titled 1983 album, under the branch mentioned in that previous paragraph.  
[Blister In The Sun](https://youtu.be/0ErfWUcIp8Q)
