---
layout: post
title: "857:"
date: 2023-04-23
---

Forró is a type of Northeastern Brazilian Music. Forró was developed from Baião and the dance rhythms quadrilha and xaxado, with influences of European Folk Music like chula and schottische (Xote). Forró is the most popular genre in Brazil's Northeastern region, but is also common in the Southeast, albeit with a radically different type of dance. It's also the name of those dances in both regions. Although similar, forró differs mainly from baião on account of its fluid, flexible musical structure, in contrast to the consistent, rigid rhythm of its cousin genre.

The instruments mainly used in forró are the accordion, the zabumba (a type of bass drum), and a metal triangle. Songs are led by the accordion and feature prominent acoustic guitar accompaniment, using limited percussion that are usually as part of the background noise, rarely focused on as an important part of the music. Traditional forró lyrics involved difficulties from the Northeastern of Brazil, like drought and poverty.

In the 1980s, the genre was revised and modernized, with the addition of other instruments (electric guitar and bass), and lyrical content starting to focus on love and romance, passion, and jealousy, as well as daily Northeastern themes.

Like baião, Luiz Gonzaga was one of the fathers of the genre. Along with him, Alceu Valença, Jackson do Pandeiro, Dominguinhos, Marinês, Trio Nordestino and Sivuca are other great names from the genre.

Chico Cesar & Dominguinhos' Deus me Proteja  
[Deus Me Proteja](https://youtu.be/7qBlIvMRIF4) so feel good
