---
layout: post
title: "968:"
date: 2023-08-12
---

Psychedelic Pop

Psychedelic pop is a genre that bridges the musical elements of Psychedelic Rock, Psychedelic Folk, and Pop to bring them together. The sound produced is often intended to emulate the way music sounds while under the effects of psychedelic drugs. It differs from other psychedelia-related genres by emphasizing catchy pop hooks and vocal harmonies similar to Sunshine Pop. However, unlike sunshine pop, psychedelic pop always retains a quality of surrealism, usually achieved with abstract lyricism and/or the liberal use of tape effects like slapback echo, reverb, or flanging. The instrumentation itself somewhat follows that of Pop Rock, but in most cases, is supplemented by instruments considered unorthodox for pop recordings in the early-to-mid 1960s, such as theremin, zither, or tack piano.

The genre was largely a studio creation. The Beach Boys and The Beatles heralded the approach early on, particularly with the albums Pet Sounds and Revolver. Other examples which soon followed include The Zombies' Odessey and Oracle, The Millennium's Begin, and Billy Nicholls' Would You Believe.

After the early 1970s, the genre ran into a steep decline. In the 1990s, psychedelic pop saw some revival with bands such as The Flaming Lips, The Olivia Tremor Control, and Gorky's Zygotic Mynci. It also formed some of the basis of the Neo-Psychedelia movement which emerged in the same era as a more modern style of psychedelic music.

From Love's 1967 album Forever Changes  
[Alone Again Or (2015 Remaster)](https://youtu.be/cPbNpIG8x_s)
