---
layout: post
title: "888:"
date: 2023-05-24
---

Neo-soul emerged in the United States and United Kingdom during the mid to late 1990s as a fusion of Soul and modern styles such as Contemporary R\&B, the rhythmic percussion and groove indebted to Hip Hop, as well with occasional incorporation of Jazz and Funk instrumentation.

British soul and Acid Jazz artists like The Young Disciples, Soul II Soul, Sade and Omar are cited to be influences on neo-soul with their progressive lyrics and eclectic instrumentation. However, the genre is believed to have emerged with Meshell Ndegeocello fusing the slick and commercial production of contemporary R\&B with hip hop and acid jazz. UK Street Soul is also said to pave the way for modern mainstream neo-soul artists like Erykah Badu and Jill Scott with its minimalist nature, mid-tempo grooves and breakbeat rhythms. Other artists like D'Angelo, Raphael Saadiq of Tony Toni Toné and Maxwell were also key in bringing neo-soul into the mainstream during the late 1990s. That said, neo-soul as a term was frowned upon in the community as merely a marketing tactic, and most simply described their music as 'soul' or 'R\&B'.

In the late 1990s to early 2000s, neo-soul gained a close connection with hip hop, with releases such as Voodoo, Like Water for Chocolate, Things Fall Apart & Black on Both Sides all being produced by notable collective The Soulquarians. Later in the 2010s, neo-soul had a new resurgence with artists like Anderson .Paak and SZA incorporating a recently developed Alternative R\&B sound into their music.

Frank Ocean, Tyler the Creator, and Mac Miller are all are quite well known, so instead, here's a 1998 neo-soul/east coast hip-hop album by Lauryn Hill, The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill.  
[lauryn hill \- the miseducation of lauryn hill (full album)](https://youtu.be/qFfgx-CDBjA)

Also, here's Black Messiah by D'Angelo and The Vanguard from 2014  
[d'angelo and the vanguard black messiah](https://youtu.be/pUsgpAWeTew?t=841)

And now I'm just 2 days behind. Of those soul recs from 882 to 888, Curtis Mayfield's Chicago Soul album Curtis is my favorite.

I skipped UK Street Soul because I don't like it that much. Maybe I'll come back to it at some point

I'm sure I'll revisit several of these genres later.

Kind of jumped backwards from the previous recs here, moving towards Gospel.
