---
layout: post
title: "998:"
date: 2023-09-11
---

Holy minimalism is a style of Minimalism that evolved principally in Europe during the late 20th century. Like minimalism as a whole, holy minimalism emerged as a rejection of post-war modernism in favour of radically simplified compositional frameworks, extensive use of repetition, static harmonies, and (usually) clear tonal or modal centres offset by occasional dissonance or non-functional harmony. But whereas minimalism often emphasises lengthy drones or elaborately shifting rhythmic patterns and ostinati that produce a “pulsing” sensation, holy minimalism tends to focus on basic, sustained, rhythmic values, soft dynamics, slow tempi, and moments of extended silence to evoke a sense of intimate contemplation reminiscent of the act of silent prayer rather than a trance-like suspension of time or motoric driving momentum.

Whereas standard minimalism could be described as broadly syncretic, particularly inspired by various non-Western genres such as Gamelan and Dhrupad, holy minimalism is largely derived from European Christian Liturgical Music, imparting a distinctive monophonic texture and homorhythmic simplicity emulative of Catholic and Orthodox musical traditions. For example, Estonian composer Arvo Pärt developed a compositional method dubbed “tintinnabuli,” in which one voice plays an arpeggiated tonic triad while a second moves in a diatonic stepwise motion, thus creating a sound reminiscent of ringing bells commonly used by the Orthodox Church.

Here's Arvo Pärt's 1984 Holy Minimalism composition Tabula Rasa  
[Arvo Pärt \- Tabula Rasa](https://youtu.be/EcinEEnul6M)  
It's a melancholic, even funereal work, all while holding depths of emotion and beauty.  
Holy minimalism is often overtly reverential and tries to evoke feelings of prayerful or tragic poignancy in stark contrast to the post-modern aloofness or abstraction that characterises many other minimalist works.

While I'm at Arvo Pärt, here's his most famous composition, Spiegel im Spiegel, written in 1978\. This is also in the tintinnabular style, wherein a melodic voice, operating over diatonic scales, and tintinnabular voice, operating within a triad on the tonic, accompany each other.  
[Arvo Pärt- Spiegel im Spiegel](https://youtu.be/TJ6Mzvh3XCc)  
It's not my favourite composition by him, but it is the first of his that I listened to. As opposed to the colder, morose imagery of Tabula Rasa, Spiegel im Spiegel Conjures up some vivid imagery of rolling hills and plains. Peace.
