---
layout: post
title: "999:"
date: 2023-09-12
---

Joanna Caroline Newsom is an American singer-songwriter and actress. Born and raised in Northern California, Newsom was classically trained on the harp in her youth and began her musical career as a keyboardist in the San Francisco-based indie band the Pleased.

Here's Joanna Newsom's 2006 Chamber Folk/Progressive Folk album Ys.  
[Joanna Newsom \- Ys (Full Album)](https://youtu.be/cJ1yFhjRnNc)

There's lots of things to love about this album.

The lyrics on "Ys" are poetic and dense. Newsom's storytelling abilities shine through as she fables intricate and allegorical stories that draw from mythology and folklore. The album's intricate arrangements and lush orchestration add depth and richness to it's 5 long songs, creating a sense of grandeur and drama. These traits coalesce into a mesmerising album, demanding the listener's attention.

Newsom's voice and unconventional vocal style are perfectly accompanied by the harp and other instruments. Comparisons have been made to legends like Kate Bush and Joni Mitchell, whom Newsom obviously took influence. At the same time, Newsom's music is truly special in itself. It is innovative and complex, but also wholly sincere.

Ys is actually an album my dad introduced to me some time ago. Back then I didn't appreciate it as much as I do now. It's idiosyncratic, and should be perceived on its own terms, in its own light rather than in comparison to something else or with some objective framework. A very enchanting listen.  
 

