---
layout: post
title: "964:"
date: 2023-08-08
---

Atmospheric DnB (AKA: Ambient Jungle, Artcore Drum and Bass, Intelligent Drum and Bass) is a subgenre of Drum and Bass which become prominent in the mid-nineties, although tracks with its traits date back as far as 1991\. It distinguishes itself from the other genres of drum and bass by speeding up the breakbeats and reducing their emphasis in the production, and instead focusing much more on the melodic aspects of the track, using slow, warm basslines, clean production and downtempo, atmospheric melodies inspired by Ambient & Ambient House productions. These elements make this strand of drum and bass a relaxing, "chill out" type of music, in stark contrast to the frenetic energy of the Jungle and Happy Hardcore popular at the time.

LTJ Bukem is the most recognised name in atmospheric DnB: he helped pioneer the genre with early classics such as "Demon's Theme" and "Atlantis (I Need You)," and is also the owner of Good Looking Records, the most successful drum and bass label specialising in this style. Other important names in the genre include Goldie, Photek, Adam F, and Omni Trio.

Here are some of LTJ Bukem's best tracks. Taken from Producer 01, a compilation of his works released in 2000  
[Cosmic Interlude](https://youtu.be/D1KIWM-VuAU) (1997)  
[Demons Theme](https://youtu.be/v5RK2i5wdt0) (1992)  
[Atlantis (I Need You)](https://youtu.be/LZv9tm920jY) (1993 \- Probably his most well known track)

The genre's heyday was the mid-to-late nineties, after which it lost popularity as other styles (eg. Techstep) became dominant. Its ethos and approach to drum and bass was adopted by the closely-related style of Jazzstep, and later, during the early 2000s, another style with the same warm basslines, emphasis on melody and clean production, Liquid Drum and Bass, became very popular.
