---
layout: post
title: "1000:"
date: 2023-09-13
---

James Dewitt Yancey, better known by the stage names J Dilla and Jay Dee, was an American record producer, drummer, rapper, and songwriter. He emerged in the mid-1990s underground hip hop scene in Detroit, Michigan, as a member of the group Slum Village.

Here's J Dilla's 2006 album, Donuts. It's an Instrumental/Experimental Hip Hop album with Soul, Funk, and Plunderphonics flavours. It isn't an album I was particularly saving for rec 1000, but I think it is a good fit.  
[J Dilla \- Donuts (Full Album)](https://youtu.be/crZF0YNORIY) (This is the type of album you listen to in full, but this upload's audio quality isn't the best. Try to listen on Spotify or elsewhere if possible)

Released on his 32nd birthday only three days before his untimely death, Donuts was J Dilla’s ninth album. The album was recorded whilst Dilla was in hospital undergoing treatment for lupus on a Boss SP-303 sampler and a portable turntable which were brought to hospital by his friends from the Stones Throw record label. The album essentially exists as a collection of skits, a beat tape of 31 songs coming in at 43 minutes long. Dilla used over seventy-five samples from a variety of music genres and artists to create this sonic collage.

All of the songs of Donuts flow into each other smoothly. The production is fantastic, meticulously arranged, and the beats and samples are obviously great. The album is bittersweet. Undoubtedly playful, and undeniably sentimental. If you enjoyed other plunderphonics hip-hop projects like Endtroducing..... (rec 608), you'll probably love this one too. Dilla loved what he did and he loved the music he sampled into this, and that love is contagious.

Donuts remains a beloved and influential piece of instrumental hip-hop and beat-making history, often recognised as one of the most important albums of the 2000s.
