---
layout: post
title: "901:"
date: 2023-06-06
---

Post-Punk

I may be biased, but Im starting with what I believe is mine, and likely most others' favourite punk rock subgenre. With its roots in the mid to late 1970s, post-punk emerged alongside the initial Punk Rock explosion in the United Kingdom. While retaining punk rock's focus on trimming away excess, post-punk tends to place more importance on creating atmosphere and usually has more complex songwriting than punk rock. Musicians tend to be much more experimental, often incorporating influences from Dub, Funk, Krautrock, Art Rock, Experimental music, and Electronic music. Unlike New Wave, its more Pop-based counterpart which emerged around the same time, post-punk often deals with more serious subject matter.

Stylistically, the genre has a general backbone consisting of a prominent, pulsating sound and rhythm section of bass and drums. On top of this arrangement are atmospheric, spiky, interweaving lead guitar lines commonly described as "angular", creating a cold and melancholic tone with extensive use of minor key melodies. Vocals tend to be menacing, monotone and in some cases, even robotic. Post-punk's underground popularity helped create many offshoots. Its sorrowful atmosphere was merged with increasing theatrics and influences from Glam Rock to create Gothic Rock (see rec 895), which bands like The Cure and The Sisters of Mercy leveraged to great chart success in the late 80s and helped form the pervasive Goth subculture.

Post-Punk acts I've recced before include Talking Heads, The Cure, Have a Nice Life, New Order, "Black Country, New Road," The Smiths, and Iggy Pop.

Here are two tracks from two more post-punk groups This Heat, and Nick Cave and The Bad Seeds  
[Sleep](https://youtu.be/DODN1y8M3Tk) (1981) experimental, avant-prog, psychedelic feel with some interesting tape manipulation  
[Red Right Hand (2011 Remaster)](https://youtu.be/lBVFdSFV2lQ) (1994) gothic, bluesy feel
