---
layout: post
title: "965:"
date: 2023-08-09
---

After a long period of relatively low popularity from the genre's heyday in the 90s, Atmospheric Drum and Bass has seen a steady influx of re-interest starting from around 2018\. Some of that is from established breaks and other DnB artists experienting in the style. This has also led to associated aesthetics changing somewhat (more anime/japanese inspired cover art, lol)

Here are a few tracks from "fantasynoises & perfect delusions," Deathbrain's 2022 debut album. Also described as Outsider House (see rec 457\)  
[Deathbrain \- my room is upside down](https://youtu.be/Oq1UZDDnhrY)  
[the empty space is stuck in my head](https://youtu.be/tAgkP9vbLgE)  
[Deathbrain \- coolpink](https://youtu.be/yhw8Z14UMUA) (my favourite off the album)

Actually here are a couple more Atmospheric DnB albums. I just like the genre.

These ones also incorporate Breakcore, which results in an interesting mix between chaotic, but also ethereal and atmospheric.  
TURQUOISEDEATH and Vmrrobotic's 2023 collaboration album Fool's Gold  
[vmrrobotic & TURQUOISEDEATH \- Fool's Gold (FULL ALBUM)](https://youtu.be/BjHpAH5wDYc?t=81)  
TURQUOISEDEATH's 2023 album Se Bueno  
[TURQUOISEDEATH \- Se Bueno \[Full Album\] (2023)](https://youtu.be/PadJz4o_jUM?t=1724) This one leans more in the purely atmospheric direction, still incorporating some great jungle breakbeats

Looks like I've never actually described Psychedelia before, so here's that and a few related genres.

Psychedelic music is music which replicates or enhances the altered state of consciousness brought on by the use of psychedelic drugs. It is identified by being whimsical or surreal, featuring "trippy" sounds often achieved through electronic distortion such as phasing, fuzz, or tape echo. Occasionally, it is related to the exotic, drawing musically or lyrically from non-Western sources. Over the last few decades, psychedelia has mutated into various established genres, largely due to the influence of popular trends and the advancement of recording techniques.

The first wave of psychedelia-infused music occurred in the mid 1960s as Psychedelic Rock, Psychedelic Pop, Psychedelic Folk, and Psychedelic Soul. Together, they include a wide range of artists such as The Jimi Hendrix Experience, The Beach Boys, The Incredible String Band, and Sly & The Family Stone. Soon after the early 1970s, psychedelic music faded in popularity.
