---
layout: post
title: "827:"
date: 2023-03-24
---

Think I'm overdue for a proper description of Hardcore \[EDM\]

Hardcore is an umbrella term for a wide variety of extremely fast-paced, energetic styles such as Gabber and Happy Hardcore—that have been developed since the early 1990s. The style of production has some similarities with traditional Techno but with a much faster pace. It seeks to push the genre to its limits and satisfy the various scenes that demanded a more intense Electronic Dance Music sound, most noticeably in Europe.

There's a load of different Hardcore scenes and sounds, and I've already gone over quite a few, including those that lean more towards techno, breaks/breakcore, jungle, drill and bass, drum and bass, etc etc.

There's also another a genre known as Digital Hardcore: A high-tempo fusion of Hardcore Punk and Electronic, which combines the harsh vocals and electric guitars of the former with electronic instruments such as synthesizers, samplers, and drum machines common in Hardcore \[EDM\] and Breakbeat Hardcore.

The genre name was coined by the Digital Hardcore Recordings label which issued recordings of the influential Atari Teenage Riot who defined the genre. Following their footsteps, most digital hardcore bands take far left and anarchist political stances in their lyrics, which is a commonplace in hardcore punk, but somewhat new to Electronic Dance Music and rave culture.

The Shizit is a digital hardcore act that combines gabber, breakbeat, drum and bass, hardcore techno, and Industrial Rock/Metal.  
[The Shizit \- Soundtrack for the Revolution (FULL ALBUM) (2001)](https://youtu.be/vyy1p30qbg8?t=360) (2001)

Wouldn't say it's up my alley, but interesting nonetheless.

Here's another digital hardcore album, Machine Girl's "...Because I'm Young Arrogant and Hate Everything You Stand For" from 2017, also mixes in Synth Punk, Breakcore, Gabber, and Hardcore Breaks.  
[Machine Girl : .​.​.​BECAUSE IM YOUNG ARROGANT AND HATE EVERYTHING YOU STAND FOR](https://youtu.be/AqRHvSC-kIc?t=136)  
Machine Girl is an interesting band with a mix of tracks I generally either love or loathe. I first mentioned them on rec 67\.

Also, here's a track off NEUPINK's 2022 digital hardcore album Dopamine Helldreams:  
[IN MY OWN DELUSIONS](https://youtu.be/2b14MSNZWB8)

The tree of Punk genres has grown more and more comple over the past 5 decades. I've been avoiding it for a while since it's difficult to organize in a straightforward way. That said, next I'll be going over a number of a punk genres in vague chronological order, skipping a few that I'll come back to later when they become more relevant.
