---
layout: post
title: "959:"
date: 2023-08-03
---

Béla Anton Leoš Fleck (born July 10, 1958\) is an American banjo player. An acclaimed virtuoso, he is an innovative and technically proficient pioneer and ambassador of the banjo, bringing the instrument from its bluegrass roots to jazz, classical, rock and various world music genres. He is best known for his work with the bands New Grass Revival and Béla Fleck and the Flecktones. Fleck has won 15 Grammy Awards and been nominated 33 times. Fleck has shared Grammy Awards with Asleep at the Wheel, Alison Brown, and Edgar Meyer (see rec 2). He has been nominated in more categories than any other musician, namely country, pop, jazz, bluegrass, classical, folk, spoken word, composition, and arranging.

Throw Down Your Heart: The Complete Africa Sessions (released 2020\) compiles 3 volumes of recordings he accumulated on his journey through Africa, which he documented in his 2008 film documentary Throw Down Your Heart.

A synopsis of the movie is as follows: Béla Fleck is a virtuoso banjo player who embarks on a personal and cultural journey to Africa to learn about the origins of his beloved instrument \-- which did not, contrary to popular belief, originate in backwoods Appalachia. Touring Uganda, Tanzania, Gambia and Mali, Fleck jams with some master musicians, duels with a Gambian banjo player, learns about the banjo's ancient history and basks in the pleasure that music affords, a pleasure that transcends cultural boundaries.

The album is packed with fun and beautiful tracks. The banjo works great with traditional African instrumentation. His features are incredible. Here are a few of my highlights from the album. The latter 2 both feature Oumou Sangaré, a Grammy Award-winning Malian Wassoulou musician, sometimes referred to as "The Songbird of Wassoulou".  
[Béla Fleck with Ateso Jazz Band \- Jesus Is the Only Answer (Official Audio)](https://youtu.be/RQdjxt9k9fE) (Fleck with a larger band)  
[Béla Fleck with Toumani Diabaté \- "Nashville" taken from The Ripple Effect (Official Audio)](https://youtu.be/rrfsingXXnA) (Just Fleck and Toumani Diabaté, a Malian kora player)  
[Béla Fleck with Oumou Sangare \- Ah Ndiya (Official Audio)](https://youtu.be/nn0NoV0DZcw) (With Oumou Sangaré)  
[Béla Fleck with Oumou Sangare \- Djorolen (Official Audio)](https://youtu.be/7p9uOsO9k8E) (With Oumou Sangaré)
