---
layout: post
title: "807:"
date: 2023-03-04
---

Stochastic music is a method of Modern Classical composition primarily developed by Ιάννης Ξενάκης \[Iannis Xenakis\] in the early 1950s, and described in his book Formalized Music. This music arose from Xenakis' critique of Serialism, which in Xenakis' point of view just substituted the natural causality of tonal music by the stricter abstract causality in order to create atonal music. However, Xenakis concludes, this causality cannot be perceived and what the listener hears is just a random set of tones, which causes that serialism crushes under its complexity.

[Iannis Xenakis – Chamber Music 1955-1990 (CD 1\)](https://youtu.be/y-gAPcBw-kQ)

Xenakis meant to create music that would evade bindings of causality but would remain logical, and its inherent logic would be perceivable on the macroscopic level. This often results in a slowly evolving mass of sound, a concept which inspired Sonorism composers. "Stochastic" is a term borrowed from theory of probability and Xenakis describes it as "an asymptotic evolution towards a stable state, towards a kind of goal, of stochos". Stochastic music is kind of guided indeterminism, where the following state is only partially determined by the preceding state, meaning that the concrete state n+2 follows after the state n+1 only with some probability. Every aspect of music, be it pitch, duration, timbre, dynamics and so on can be subordinated to such laws of chance.

Stochastic music heavily borrows from mathematics such as law of large numbers, probability theory, game theory, Boolean algebra, Markov chains, Poisson law, group theory and so on. These mathematical means are used to guide the indeterminism. However, this method is different to Indeterminacy, where the randomness is not guided by mathematical or other such laws. Also, the output of stochastic processes is usually fixed in a traditional score in the end, where indeterminacy often uses open scores and even alternative notations.
