---
layout: post
title: "960:"
date: 2023-08-04
---

Moorish music refers to the music of the Moors, the largest ethnic group in Mauritania.

One of the most distinct Moorish musical traditions is that of the iggawin, a caste of wandering musicians similar to West African bards such as the jeli of Mande Music. Their music usually consists of poetry accompanied by tidinit, an elongated four-stringed lute played by men, and ardin, a harp-lute similar to a kora, played by women. Occasionally a tbal, a kettle-drum played by women, is also included.

The music of the iggawin is more formally restrictive than that of West African traditions, reflecting the influence of Arabic Classical Music. Five modes known as bhor are used, each divided into 'black' and 'white' sections which emphasize different approaches to playing.

Here's خليفة ولد عيدي مع ديمي منت آبا \[Khalifa ould Eide & Dimi mint Abba\]'s 1990 album موسقى موريش من موريتانيا (Moorish Music From Mauritania)  
[Khalifa Ould Eide & Dimi Mint Abba \- Moorish Music From Mauritania (1990) (Full Album)](https://youtu.be/Cn3AHIowKEY?t=2363)

I've timestamped a great track with prominent vocals from Dimi Mint Abba. From her Spotify profile:  
"Dimi Mint Abba was born in Mauritania in 1958 to a family of musicians. Her mother was a percussionist, while her father had composed Mauritania's national anthem in 1960 after the country had obtained its independence from France. As a child she sung for her parents, and when she was ten her mother taught her to play the t'bol and the ardin, both of which are instruments traditionally reserved for women. In 1976 she first sang on Mauritanian radio and made a great impact with her powerful voice. The same year she won a radio-sponsored competition that allowed her to enter the International Umm Kalthum Song Contest of 1977 that took place in Tunis. Abba won first prize in the Tunis contest and went on to establish herself as one of the most popular female vocalists in the Maghreb. She has toured widely in Africa, and in 1990 toured Europe with her husband, Khalifa Ould Eide (singer, guitarist, and tidinit player), and her two daughters, at which time she also recorded Moorish Music from Mauritania. \~ Leon Jackson, Rovi"

Her voice is somewhat divisive, it seems, but I love it.
