---
layout: post
title: "838:"
date: 2023-04-04
---

Anima latina is a 1974 Progressive/Psychedelic/Art Pop album by Lucio Battisti.

Lucio Battisti was an influential Italian singer-songwriter and composer. He is widely recognized for songs that defined the late 1960s and 1970s era of Italian songwriting. He was known to be an extremely reserved artist, very few live concerts. In 1978 he announced that he would speak to the public only through his musical work, limiting himself to the recording of studio albums and disappearing from the public scene.

Anima latina is considered Battisti's most complex and multi-layered work, a new personal approach to progressive rock with an increased attention to rhythms and increasingly cryptic lyrics by Mogol. Their work enjoyed good success, remaining for 13 weeks at number one in Italian charts.

The first song on the album, Abbracciala abbracciali abbracciati ("Hug her hug them hug yourself"), is my favorite. Listening through this should indicate pretty well whether this album is for you. As a side, the vocals on this one paired with those ethereal guitars really reminds me of the Prog Pop sound of Fishmans. The brass is unique, and a really fantastic addition that compliments Battisti's voice.  
[Abbracciala abbracciali abbracciati](https://youtu.be/WeSYsIDiJag)

The title track, Anima latina, is another favorite.  
[Anima latina](https://youtu.be/5Luy6rJbCTI)

It's not a perfect album, but there are some really great, truly memorable songs and moments within it.

I think I'll do a few of the following recs on slowcore.

Slowcore is a subgenre of Indie Rock characterised by downbeat melodies, slow tempos, and often minimalist arrangements. The genre was shaped by musical influences like Folk Rock, Contemporary Folk, and later on, Indie Folk, creating a subdued atmosphere that clashed against most of the comparatively brash Alternative Rock that was popular at the time. Foundational artists like Galaxie 500 added the atmosphere and songwriting of Dream Pop into the mix, and Codeine would exemplify the influence of Post-Rock. It also took on the often sloppier-played and lackadaisical songwriting features of its sister scene, Slacker Rock. Some artists additionally incorporated melodic influences from predominantly American forms of guitar-oriented music such as Country and Americana. Lyrically, the genre can vary, but there is typically a focus on sadness, earning its conflation with 'sadcore', a similar term which applies to a broader style of alternative rock music.

Slowcore started within the late 1980s in the West Coast and East Coast United States, where bands like American Music Club, Galaxie 500 and Red House Painters set the standards of the genre. Low would bring the genre to a new audience and begin making slowcore a staple within indie rock in the early 1990s, echoing the message of quiet rebellion against the louder rock of the time, though somewhat deriding the slowcore term. Acts like Songs: Ohia additionally garnered substantial critical acclaim during this period for their fusion of country and folk with slowcore as well. The genre would see a decrease in popularity later in the 2000s, but with the growth of online music discussion into the 2010s, slowcore's following rebounded. 1990s slowcore acts like Duster and Bedhead would garner a newfound appreciation, and newer artists, such as Giles Corey and Horse Jumper of Love, made music in the style and accumulated a substantial following from it as well.
