---
layout: post
title: "967:"
date: 2023-08-11
---

Psychedelic Folk

Psychedelic folk is a wide category of acoustic song forms that capture an aesthetic similar to that of other Psychedelia-based genres, with an atmosphere that is at times dream-like, 'spaced-out', whimsical, haunting, mystical, and/or melancholy. This is achieved using a variety of different methods and approaches, such as studio effects, tunings, affected vocal styles and discordant melodies. Inspiration is also sometimes drawn from various Regional Music traditions from around the world, as well as light avant-garde influences from Drone and American Primitivism.

The genre developed from the British and American folk revival of the 1960s, with artists presenting a warped version of the acoustic 'folk troubadour' Singer-Songwriter boom of the time.

Aside from acoustic guitar, stringed instruments commonly used include banjo, violin, dulcimer, harp, mandolin and bouzouki, as well as instruments associated with South Asian Music, sitar, tabla and sarod. Whilst acoustic instrumentation is the primary focus and at the forefront of psychedelic folk music, electric lead guitar and bass guitar as background accompaniment are also not uncommon. Guitar, vocal or production effects such as echo, delay, phaser, reverb and reversing are often utilised, whilst vocals are sometimes slightly off key, whispery, use high-pitched ethereal harmonies, Choral-esque backing or a chanting effect.

Whilst hardly a huge commercial success during its heyday in the late 1960s, psychedelic folk went further underground in the ensuing decades, with the approach often being utilised by independent musicians using lo-fidelity recording values.

Natural Snow Buildings is one example of a psychedelic group I've talked about in the past.

From Tim Buckley's (see rec 818\) 1969 album Happy Sad.  
[Buzzin' Fly](https://youtu.be/yUmK7rgiMM4)

From The Microphones' 2001 album The Glow Pt. 2\. This album is ranked \#2 for 2001, \#42 overall on RYM  
[The Moon](https://youtu.be/kTWTN_uxNcQ)
