---
layout: post
title: "823:"
date: 2023-03-20
---

A madrigal (not Trecento Madrigal) is a form of secular vocal music most typical of the Renaissance (15th–16th c.) and early Baroque (1600–1750) periods, although revisited by some later European composers. Originating in Italy and spreading to England and Germany as well as within the Franco-Flemish music of the time period. The polyphonic madrigal is unaccompanied, and the number of voices varies from two to eight, but usually features three to six voices, whilst the metre of the madrigal varies between two or three tercets, followed by one or two couplets. Unlike the verse-repeating strophic forms sung to the same music, most madrigals are through-composed \- featuring different music for each stanza of lyrics, whereby the composer expresses the emotions contained in each line and in single words of the poem being sung.

Philippe Verdelot (\~1485 to \~1535) was a French composer of the Renaissance, who spent most of his life in Italy. He is commonly considered to be the father of the Italian madrigal, and certainly was one of its earliest and most prolific composers; in addition he was prominent in the musical life of Florence during the period after the recapture of the city by the Medici from the followers of Girolamo Savonarola.

Here's a short composition by Verdelot, performed by Capilla Flamenca.  
[Ogn'hor per voi sospiro](https://youtu.be/HN9kpAQqrVQ)

(Lyrics translated from Italian to English)  
I sigh for you every woman  
since I dare not to discover  
my faith is my martyr  
and I know you see  
a thousand times a day my pain  
but so you want  
that consuming I go little by little  
silent, loving in loving fire.
