---
layout: post
title: "878:"
date: 2023-05-14
---

The Fire This Time is a compilation album produced by Hidden Art Recordings (label), released 2002\. The album compiles several, mostly IDM and Ambient artists including Aphex Twin, Michael Stearns, and Higher Intelligence Agency.

Over the 1 hour 20 minute runtime of the first disc, the music is set to narration regarding the atrocities committed during the Gulf War, including a look at the causes, implementation and aftermath, with a focus on US involvement and propaganda. Clips from news reports, broadcasts, speeches, etc are also included.

For those unaware, the Gulf War was a 1990–1991 armed campaign waged by a 39-country military coalition in response to the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. Spearheaded by the United States, the coalition's efforts against Iraq were carried out in two key phases: Operation Desert Shield, which marked the military buildup from August 1990 to January 1991; and Operation Desert Storm, which began with the aerial bombing campaign against Iraq on 17 January 1991\.

Following the 6 months of war, Kuwaiti civilian losses included Over 1,000 killed, and 600 missing people. Iraqi civilian losses included 3,664 killed. An additional 75 were killed in Israel and Saudi Arabia, with 309 injured. The Gulf War caused a massive humanitarian crisis, environmental damage, a rise in American dominance, sanctions against Iraq, and heightened tensions between the United States and Iraq, which would lead to further conflicts and hundreds of thousands of deaths in the years to come.

It's a poignant listen and a nice way to get a history lesson. The buildup to "Say Hello To Allah", a remix of Afx's "Come To Daddy", is pretty good.  
[The Fire This Time (disc 1, audio documentary)](https://youtu.be/FlGgWd0rALw)

Disc 2 has the music used, laid out differently from disc 1 and with no narration.
