---
layout: post
title: "875:"
date: 2023-05-11
---

Brega (Portuguese word for "corny", "tacky" or "cheesy") is a term that started to be used around the 1960s, as a generalising and depreciating reference to what is regarded as "bad-taste" in Brazilian popular culture, especially music made by and for the lower income population. Although mostly unappreciated by the middle and upper classes, a kind of overstated, dramatised music similar to the Operetta form has been present in Brazilian culture since the 1930s, and was widely prized for at least the next two decades as a way to sing, popularised by genres like Samba-canção and Bolero.

The arrival of Bossa nova and Jovem Guarda in the 1960s made the romantic singing style of brega seem out-of-date, but as their fame faded in the early 70s, many Pop singers began to reincorporate the melodic styles of the genre. In the late 1970s and 80s, some Disco-oriented hitmakers became considered "brega" because of their flamboyant style and dances.

In the 2000s, the genre was renewed with the addition of poppier and more danceable elements, diversifying itself into many subgenres and styles depending on the influences. In the state of Pará, the fusion with Calypso, Lambada and Carimbó generated Brega calypso, whose main group, Banda Calypso, became a national success. The increasing usage of Electronic instrumentation led to the development of Tecnobrega, while, in the state of Bahia, influences of Axé and Forró led to Arrocha. Later on, in the early 2010s, Brega funk appeared in the city of Recife by mixing the tecnobrega sound with the more aggressive and repetitive rhythm, vocals and lyrics of Funk brasileiro.

Odair José's "O filho de José e Maria" (1977)  
[O Filho De José e Maria- 1977- Odair José (Completo)](https://youtu.be/shC_BT8BEpw)
