---
layout: post
title: "877:"
date: 2023-05-13
---

Tecnobrega is a style of Northern Brazilian Music, particularly associated with peripheral areas of the city of Belém. Developing in the 2000s out of the pop rhythms known as Brega and Brega calypso, early tecnobrega producers remixed and reworked brega songs, replacing the acoustic instruments (such as the drums) with tracks created using music software and usually changing the beats per minute of the songs, making them faster. Pirate copies of several audio editing softwares are commonly used.

Brega funk is an off-shoot of Funk brasileiro and Tecnobrega, created in the early 2010s in the Northeast region of Brazil, most notably in the poorer areas of Recife. Unlike funk carioca, brega funk has a glossy sound that features glistening syncopated MIDI pianos, synths, often filtered guitars, and the distinct pitched metallic snares called caixas, vocal chops are a common companion to the wonky kick rhythm and up-down bass inherited from tecnobrega, and even though the genre commonly ranges from 160-180 BPM, the half-time beat makes it feel slower than other funk subgenres.

Luísa e os Alquimistas' Jaguatirica Print (2019) belongs to both the brega funk and tecnobrega genres.  
[Luísa e os Alquimistas | Jaguatirica Print | Álbum Completo (2019)](https://youtu.be/Ha5QlLFJVMA)

There are about 8 Brazilian genres left on the list I was gonna get through (bossa-nova, frevo, coco, axe, carimbo, lambada, arrocha, and piseiro), but I feel like I've been covering Brazilian music for enough time now.

This series has now been going since rec 854\.  
Compared to the series on modern Chinese pop history (17 recs), the Western Classical Music tradition (22 recs) and reggae and it's roots (26 recs), it's the 2nd longest now at 23 recs

The highlights from the last 23 recs are definitely Samba (866), and MPB (872), as Clube da Esquina and Acabou chorare are both phenomenal albums.

Gal Costa and Caetano Veloso's Coração Vagabundo, Paulingo Nogueura and Toquinho's instrumental guitar music, and Carinhoso (either the Marisa Monte or original Pixinguinha version) are the other big highlights.
