---
layout: post
title: "860:"
date: 2023-04-26
---

Sertanejo is a type of Brazilian Music that originated in the 1920s, when acoustic musicians living in rural areas gained popularity. It has been shaped into different forms and subgenres over many decades and is nowadays the most popular music genre in Brazil, being even spread internationally through non-Portuguese speaking countries. Typical instruments used in sertanejo are acoustic guitar, viola caipira, 12-string acoustic guitar, accordion, triangle and pandeiro / tambourine, while the vocals play a crucial role in the songs, with singers that usually have tenor vocals and nasal voice. Initially, the genre was mainly composed by duos, and this is a characteristic that persists until today, even though solo artists and bands with three or more members are also present. The name sertanejo comes from "sert찾o", a portuguese word that refers to countryside / rural regions in general. Even though it is mostly associated with sert찾o nordestino, a subregion of the Brazilian Northeast, in the context of sertanejo it refers to sert찾o caipira, i.e., from Central and Southeastern Brazil.

The second era of sertanejo following Sertanejo de raiz is a transition phase, beginning after World War II and incorporating elements of other styles such as European Polka and new instruments such as the accordion and the harp, while also giving the genre more amorous themes.

The third era is the uprising of Sertanejo rom창ntico in the end of the 1960s, introducing the electric guitar and being influenced by American Country and Pop. The romantic aspect was evidenced and it got even more popular in the 1980s, when people started listening to it on radio and television. In this decade the genre got a lot of commercial attention. A Hybrid of Brazilian Sertanejo with Pop production and aesthetics.

From Victor & Leo's 2008 album Borboletas  
[Borboletas](https://youtu.be/ToHf7SZfceE)

Not a big fan personally
