---
layout: post
title: "882:"
date: 2023-05-18
---

On rec 692 I talked about Philly Soul, and on 693 I talked about Smooth Soul. Aside from those, I've mentioned Soul music more than 80 times, somehow, so I guess it's finally time for a proper description of the genre.

Soul music originated in African-American culture of the 20th century. It resulted from the combination of the ecstatic vocals of Gospel music with the upbeat instrumentation of Rhythm & Blues, consisting of guitar, bass and percussion. Two further strong influences on the style are Big Band brass and the call-and-response style of Work Songs.

The vocal delivery is the most important and distinctive feature of soul music, with most vocalists possessing an expressive, flexible voice. Despite the loose and unleashed feeling of the music, the expectations towards a soul singer include virtuosity and discipline, as well as great abilities as an entertainer. Many soul musicians became icons of popular culture and were more sexually explicit than their contemporaries, a point that was stretched by the closely related Funk, popularised by singer James Brown (who was dubbed the "Godfather of Soul"). Other founding fathers of soul and recording giants are Sam Cooke, Ray Charles, Otis Redding, Aretha Franklin and Stevie Wonder.

During the 1960s, soul music was the most popular form of African-American music with commercially and artistically successful record labels. Motown Records was the leader of the pack, with its distinctive Motown Sound defining the Pop Soul music of the era. Stax Records hailing from Memphis, Tennessee was another significant label for the genre's development with its raw, gritty Southern Soul style. The renaming of the "Hot Rhythm & Blues Singles" Billboard category to "Best Selling Soul Singles" indicated the growing dominance of soul music within African-American music.

Here're both parts of Songs in the Key of Life a 1976 soul album by Stevie Wonder. This album happens is ranked \#1 for 1976, \#33 overall on RYM.  
[Stevie Wonder \- Songs In The Key Of Life (1976) Part 1 (Full Double Album \+ Bonus Single)](https://youtu.be/HrJB-MItdVY)  
[Stevie Wonder \- Songs In The Key Of Life (1976) Part 2 (Full Double Album \+ Bonus Single)](https://youtu.be/oiG9eiwUpHo)

Soul spawned other various subgenres and scenes since its inception. Smooth Soul emphasises the themes of love and seduction with decidedly soft vocals and polished production, exemplified by 1970s-era Marvin Gaye. Chicago Soul combines groove with a glossy studio production. Outside the USA, Samba Soul is the combination of the delivery of soul with the rhythms of Samba by artists such as Jorge Ben. From the 1980s onwards, Contemporary R\&B is associated with the vocal delivery also common in soul music, while the 1990s saw Neo-Soul emerge as a fusion of classic (mostly smooth) soul with Hip Hop.
