---
layout: post
title: "822:"
date: 2023-03-19
---

The Trecento Madrigal is an Italian musical form of the 14th century, sometimes known as the Italian ars nova. It is quite distinct from the madrigal of the Renaissance and early Baroque, with which it shares only the name. The madrigal of the Trecento flourished ca. 1340–1370 with a short revival near 1400\. It was a composition for two (or rarely three) voices, sometimes on a pastoral subject. In its earliest development it was simple construction: Francesco da Barberino in 1300 called it a "raw and chaotic singalong".

The origins of the madrigal are obscure, and debated, with one school of thought seeing it as a secular mutation of the conductus of the ars antiqua (see rec 771), and another seeing it as deriving from 13th-century secular monophonic song with an improvised accompaniment. Little Italian music from the 13th century has survived, so links between medieval forms such as the conductus and troubadour song and the music of the trecento are largely inferential. The origin of the name is also unclear; two possibilities are derivation from materialis (in contrast to formalis), designating a poem without a definite form, or from matrix, meaning mother, either as in a song in the mother tongue or music used for Mother Church.

more reading:  
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Music\_of\_the\_Trecento](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Music_of_the_Trecento)

Very little Italian music remains from the 13th century, so the immediate antecedents of the music of the Trecento must largely be inferred.

Birth of the Trecento style (1330–1360)  
[Sì com'al canto della bella yguana](https://youtu.be/3h3EhE8ocE4) (Maestro Piero)

Florentine music in the mid-to-late fourteenth century (1350–1390)  
Francesco Landini is the most famous composer of the Trecento and is attributed to this generation. He appeared on rec 773 from the album The Second Circle.

Trecento music during the Great Schism (1378–1417)  
[Un pellegrin uccel](https://youtu.be/PlRNp3qXDBw) (More surviving music of the Trecento is attributable to Paolo da Firenze than to any other composer except for Francesco Landini)
