---
layout: post
title: "966:"
date: 2023-08-10
---

Psychedelic Rock

Songs of this genre typically include heavily distorted and reverbed electric guitars, extended instrumental segments (especially guitar solos), augmented vocals, and drug-influenced lyrics. Other common characteristics include use of keyboards and elaborate studio effects like backwards recording. It is also not uncommon for psychedelic rock groups to incorporate prominent elements of other genres including Folk, Blues, Jazz, and South Asian Music.

The beginning of psychedelic rock is generally considered to be 1966, which saw the release of The Byrds' Fifth Dimension, notably their single "Eight Miles High", The Beatles' B-side "Rain", and The Psychedelic Sounds of The 13th Floor Elevators. In many respects, psychedelic rock emerged alongside Psychedelic Pop. Especially in the UK, many of the early psychedelic records incorporated elements of both genres, most notably with The Beatles' Revolver.

In 1967 the popularity of psychedelic rock exploded and, especially in the US, psychedelic rock was being more clearly distinguished from psychedelic pop by moving away from pop-oriented song structures and incorporating elements of Garage Rock and Blues Rock, as well as the emergence of the 'wah'-heavy Acid Rock sub-style. The most notable artists which showcased these fusions are Jimi Hendrix, The Doors, Cream and Jefferson Airplane.

Since I've already talked about Jimi Hendrix, The Doors, Can, and KGLW in some form in the past, here's a track from a slightly lesser known group, Yeti (Improvisation) by krautrock band Amon D端端l II from their 1970 album Yeti.  
[Amon D端端l II \- Yeti (Improvisation)](https://youtu.be/Gr7uXibfdMw)
