---
layout: post
title: "829:"
date: 2023-03-26
---

Bomba is both a traditional dance and musical style of Puerto Rico. Its origins are rooted in the island's history of African slavery but today has evolved into a community expression of Puerto Rican culture. While Bomba can be used as the generic name for a number of rhythms, it is truly about a creative, interactive relationship between dancers, percussionists and singers. Today it's practiced as a communal activity in its centers of origin in Loíza, Santurce, Mayagüez and Ponce. Also, Puerto Rican migrants have brought the tradition to some parts of the U.S. mainland

Puerto Rican Bomba is the first native music of Puerto Rico, created in the sugar plantations by slaves more than 400 years ago. African slaves were brought to Puerto Rico by the Spaniards during the 1600s. It has Puerto Rican elements in the Taínos (Arawaks) like the maraca and Cuás (2 wooden sticks previously played at the side of the Bomba Barrel), the Spanish like the footsteps in the dancing and the greatest influence of is the African native. This represents the Puerto Rican cultural mix. In Bomba, there are 4 instruments: a Cuá, a Maraca, the Buleador drum and the Subidor drum.

Bomba is described to be a challenge/connection between the drummer and the dancer. The dancer produces a series of gestures to which the primo o subidor drummer provides a synchronized beat. Thus, it is the drummer who attempts to follow the dancer, and not the more traditional form of the dancer following the drummer.

A song I like  
[Cortijo y Kako y Sus Tambores \- Que le paso (1970)](https://youtu.be/5jSPOG-wC_Y) (1970)  
An album  
[CORTIJO Y SU COMBO CON ISMAEL RIVERA: Fiesta Boricua.](https://youtu.be/I3g6Zd0cXE4) (1960)

A more recent song example, from 1989\. Willie Colón adds bomba breaks to his songs.  
[El Gran Varón](https://youtu.be/G9-IGDyFXnI)
