---
layout: post
title: "948:"
date: 2023-07-23
---

Vapornoise

This is perhaps the most straight-forward of this series of vaporwave subgenres. There is a spectrum within vapornoise, but the unifying characteristic is the utilization of noise, culture-jamming, or subversion of the typical vaporwave sounds. Releases vary in sampling and added effects. Vaporwave fans have speculated about a subgenre on ends of the spectrum from harsh to not, but there exists a great deal of releases under this name. Vapornoise grew in popularity following second-wave vaporwave, when the growth of satirical releases and criticism of the genre was high.

Here are 3 releases from one end of the harshness spectrum to the other

▣世界から解放され▣ (Sekai kara kaihō sa re)  by ░▒▓新しいデラックスライフ▓▒░ : ▣世界から解放され▣, an EP released 2012  
[░▒▓新しいデラックスライフ▓▒░  :  ▣世界から解放され▣](https://youtu.be/sGHVE7BTW-o)  
One of the more puzzling vaporwave releases, this INTERNET CLUB alias was used for one album/EP, a collection of garbled Japanese television sounds. It is a divisive release, some hailing it as the logical conclusion of vaporwave. Not terribly noisy, but different enough and somewhat anti-music in its conception that it falls in the vapornoise spectrum.

Y. 2089 by テレビ体験, released 2014  
[テレビ体験 : Y. 2089](https://youtu.be/Da9EI9UG13o)  
This one's actually somewhat nice

私はライトゼロを感じている by アドブロック+ \[AdBlock Plus\], released 2013  
[アドブロック+ \- 私はライトゼロを感じている](https://youtu.be/5A7Btuorixs)  
This is as harsh as it gets for vapornoise without being utterly useless in listening value. Utilises samples but only in a vague sense as they are buried under heaps of static and amplification. questionable
