---
layout: post
title: "896:"
date: 2023-06-01
---

Deathrock is a Punk Rock subgenre that draws heavily from the sound and aesthetic of Gothic Rock. Like other Punk genres, deathrock is guitar-driven but usually uses scratchy or echoing guitar effects instead of heavy distortion. Prominent bass lines are common with the bass guitar sometimes serving as the melodic lead instrument. Drumming can be very punk-oriented or have a decidedly tribal sound. Use of other instrumentation is common, especially synthesisers. Lyrical subject matter has varied among different deathrock scenes but is always dark and macabre.

Deathrock initially formed as an offshoot from the early Southern California punk rock scene of the 1970s and early 80s with bands like Christian Death, 45 Grave and Kommunity FK. Many of the early California deathrock bands started as punk bands or were composed of musicians from other punk and Hardcore Punk bands. The punk roots can easily be heard in early deathrock.

In the UK an analogous dark and gloomy punk scene, at the time called ‘positive punk’ took hold. The positive punk sound was highly influenced by the darker side of Post-Punk and often featured tribal drumming, scratchy, screeching guitar, high-pitched vocals and prominent bass guitar.

For much of the 1990s the gothic music scene was dominated by Electro-Industrial and popularity in guitar driven deathrock waned.

Here's a 1983 album, Death Church by London Deathrock band Rudimentary Peni  
[Rudimentary Peni \- Death Church (Full Album)](https://youtu.be/xFEo_lt66-I?t=218)  
Lots of tracks that are under a minute long on this album

I'll talk more about Punk-related genres soon, for now I just wanted to do this first, since I did Gothic Rock last rec.
