---
layout: post
title: "913:"
date: 2023-06-18
---

Noisecore

Noisecore is a Noise-driven derivative of Hardcore Punk music, where the sound generally consists of short blasts of riff-less noise, chaotic drums, and screamed vocals. The history of noisecore dates back to the mid-1980s. The music is raw, tumultuous, and lo-fi, straying far from common musical traits and deviating from its Punk Rock roots. Noisecore varies between making cacophonous, unharmonious music to being outright noise itself. The template of the genre calls for releases that consist of dozens, if not literally hundreds, of tracks that are not more than a minute but are usually only a few seconds in length. Artists of this sound often consider it anti-music, represented by a logo consisting of two crossed-out eighth notes. Despite emerging from hardcore punk, noisecore generally employs a more Experimental approach by implementing different styles of noise and straying from traditional music as a whole through production and songwriting.

Before the emergence of the genre, there were Japanese Hardcore artists also referred to as noisecore, or literally "Japanese noisecore." Bands such as Confuse, Sieg Heil, and Tranquilizer came out of the Japanese hardcore scene in the early 1980s to make intentionally lo-fi, raw, and muffled hardcore punk. Some of these groups have been regarded as influences for later noisecore for their extreme and noisy style of punk, yet musically they are still very much grounded in the punk rock music of the time. Noisecore to some outlets has also been interchangeable with raw and noisy Emoviolence, whitebelt, Sasscore, and even Noise Rock bands. Definitions of the style tend to not describe these bands; however, the implications for the word noisecore have caused these different meanings over the years.

The Gerogerigegege's 1994 album Instruments Disorder (170 Songs CD)  
[The gerogerigegege \- 1994\. Instruments disorder](https://youtu.be/zHiU7aF-f_Q)

I didn't listen through the whole thing, but 25:30 is actually pretty good.

Alright, moving away from the Hardcore stuff now
