---
layout: post
title: "870:"
date: 2023-05-06
---

Choro (cry/lament) or chorinho (little lament), as the genre is commonly referred to by Brazilians, was developed in the late 19th century in Rio de Janeiro and is considered to be the first urban music from Brazil. It was named after the crying-like harmony generated by the group of instruments commonly used to play it: seven-string acoustic guitar, mandolin, flute, cavaquinho and pandeiro.

Choro resulted from the exposure of Brazilian musicians to European musical styles, mainly the polka (introduced in Rio de Janeiro in 1845), in a musical environment that was already strongly influenced by African rhythms, principally the Lundu, that had been present in Brazilian culture since the end of the 18th century. Just like Ragtime in the United States, choro springs up as a result of influences of music styles and rhythms coming from two continents: Europe and Africa.

Here's the first suite of À vontade by Baden Powell from 1964, featuring some of instruments  
[Baden Powell   À Vontade   Suite 1](https://youtu.be/vQ77MMxndgE)  
Gente da antiga by Pixinguinha, Clementina de Jesus & João da Baiana, which also features saxophone.  
[Gente da Antiga \- Yaô \- João da Baiana](https://youtu.be/AVNm1ROhZrY)

Nowadays choro is not as popular in Brazil as it used to be in the first half of the 20th century. On the other hand, it never boasted so much recognition as it does today. The song "Carinhoso" by Pixinguinha and Braguinha (lyrics), for example, is considered by several Brazilian professional critics to be the best Brazilian song of all time.

Here's a version of that song performed by Marisa Monte and Paulinho da Viola.  
[Carinhoso (Pixinguinha/Braguinha)](https://youtu.be/8IhqXDQkWpQ)

Choro is the only genre in this series of Brazilian recs that I've already talked about to this extent. It's consistently been among my 5 favourite genres since I first started listening to it. (Other favorites for me are Breakcore, IDM, Jazz Fusion, and Cinematic Classical, btw).
