---
layout: post
title: "980:"
date: 2023-08-24
---

I've mentioned Jungle close to 20 times, but never actually described the genre. I'll do that now.

Jungle is a rave-oriented Electronic Dance Music style now known as the forerunner of most Drum and Bass genres. It originated in the early 1990s when Breakbeat Hardcore (described just before rec 391, see album by Machine Girl on rec 67\) producers began experimenting with faster tempos, deeper basslines, and more complex songwriting. The main characteristics of jungle are fast tempos of 160 BPM and up, largely sample-based production, energetic or chaotic-sounding drum breaks, a strong bassline, and sometimes piano/synth chord riffs based on Hardcore \[EDM\] and House music from the era.

The earliest jungle records used the sounds of breakbeat hardcore and emphasized the dark atmosphere and basslines, in parallel with Darkside. This style, sometimes known as "jungle techno", helped establish other dark-sounding drum and bass genres like Hardstep and Darkstep. In contrast, other artists kept the more melodic, upbeat rave sound. In the mid-1990s, this kind of jungle became more relaxed, using less frantic breakbeats and focusing more strongly on atmosphere and melodies, becoming a blueprint for Atmospheric Drum and Bass (see rec 965). Later developments include the fusion of Reggae and Hip Hop elements with the darkside and uplifting styles, becoming the most popular style of jungle that received the most airplay. It was also influential in the creation of other styles of dance music such as Ragga Jungle, Breakcore, and Drumfunk.

Here are a few jungle tracks from the early 90s  
DJ Trace \- Coffee (1994)  
[Flammable](https://youtu.be/vPnfylSTo5I)

Johnny Jungle \- Flammable (1993)  
[Flammable](https://youtu.be/vPnfylSTo5I)

Tom & Jerry \- Maximum Style (1994)  
[Tom & Jerry \- Maximum Style](https://youtu.be/23A6OnGlSlU)
