---
layout: post
title: "914:"
date: 2023-06-19
---

Anarcho-Punk

As a reaction to and continuation of the commercial breakthrough of Punk Rock in the late 1970s, anarcho-punk sought to distance itself from the bands that it already considered to have become too glossy and commercial. Between the years of 1978-1984, anarcho-punk bands like Crass and Subhumans sought to hold punk to its roots by largely disregarding the verse/chorus structures that 'mainstream' punk had displayed, creating DIY record venues labels like Crass Records and by playing with a purposeful rough sloppiness, allowing the shouted vocals that railed against societal and governmental injustices to become the primary 'instrument' on display. Other topics related to anarchism like feminism, animal rights and environmental justice are also common lyrical themes. Often played as loud and fast as the band's skills allowed, the intent was to create sounds that were just as extreme as the message they tried to convey. Anarchic philosophies also lead to a great deal of experimentation with Post-Punk, Art Punk, Spoken Word and other genres among anarcho-punk bands like Poison Girls, and Zounds. Anarcho-punk bands often lived the anarchist lifestyle they extolled.

From Subhumans' 1984 album From the Cradle to the Grave  
[From the Cradle to the Grave](https://youtu.be/KCmpmcsYa0U)

From Crass' 1981 album Penis Envy  
[Bata Motel](https://youtu.be/groGLFvlDF0)

Anarcho-punk has been one of the main musical, aesthetic and ideological influences for many punk subgenres. Anarcho-punk influenced subsequent punk movements musically by showing punk music could be experimental and interesting without betraying its democratising simplicity and rough edge. Aesthetic influences can be seen in the countless emulations of the militaristic, sparse black and white art on original anarcho punk albums. Perhaps most importantly, anarcho-punk showed that punk politics were more substantive and thoughtful than the likes of Sex Pistols lead many to believe.
