---
layout: post
title: "809:"
date: 2023-03-06
---

Free improvisation is a style of music that emerged in the mid-1960s. Free improvisation as a musical movement and genre is notably distinct from the musical or compositional technique of "freely improvising", which predates it considerably. It is defined by two main characteristics: first, the absence of established musical "idioms" or structures, and second, improvisation as the primary method through which music is created.

Historically, free improvisation is descended from Free Jazz and Indeterminacy. For some artists in the 1960s, free jazz, which was focused on improvisation in the absence of any predetermined chord progression or song structure, eventually moved completely beyond the Jazz idiom, resulting in the earliest examples of what would now be identified as part of the "free improvisation" genre.

From the outset of the genre, many different artists and groups disagreed on the nature and definition of improvisation itself, a question that is hotly debated amongst freely improvising musicians to this day; Derek Bailey attributes this fact to "something central to the spirit of improvisation which is opposed to the aims and contradicts the idea of documentation". As such, the genre is extremely diverse in sound, and defficult to write a singular rec about.

Here's Anthony Braxton's 1969 Free Improvisation album "For Alto". For Alto was the first jazz album composed solely of solo saxophone music, and probably the first of a lot of other things too.  
[Anthony Braxton ‎- For Alto (1969) FULL ALBUM](https://youtu.be/J_t0esySWy0)
