---
layout: post
title: "872:"
date: 2023-05-08
---

MPB, short for música popular brasileira, is a loosely defined genre that formed in the mid-1960s as a modernised version of Bossa nova and Samba-canção. Taking influence from many foreign styles of popular music, it nevertheless retains a distinctly Brazilian identity by broad musical connections to local genres such as Samba or Choro, and by lyrics nearly exclusively in Portuguese; this had a marked influence on its initial popularity, as Brazil's military government began to promote it as a sophisticated and middle class "national music", in response to the increasing popularity of Rock.

The short-lived Tropicália movement in the late 1960s, headed by artists such as Gilberto Gil and Gal Costa, saw further development of this blend of genres, leading to the 1970s and arguably the most readily identified period of MPB. This included, for example, musicians like Chico Buarque and Milton Nascimento, in whose music the initial bossa nova influence mostly diminished.

Despite declining in popularity from the 1980s onwards, MPB still remains a significant style, popular in both Brazil and abroad. Today the term is typically used for mostly acoustic music, sung in Portuguese, often vaguely similar to Contemporary Folk, and often using Brazilian instruments such as the cuica or cavaquinho, but not in a way specific to a more strictly defined genre. Its complex connections to other genres, however, make a strict definition impractical.

From Milton Nascimento & Lô Borges's 1972 Album/Compilation Clube da Esquina  
[Tudo O Que Você Podia Ser](https://youtu.be/0rJz-tazK4I)  
[Um Girassol Da Cor Do Seu Cabelo](https://youtu.be/l8ETbYy83Vc)

The release happens to be the highest rated Brazilian music on RYM, rated 4.12 / 5.0 and ranked \#4 for 1972, \#105 overall for albums.

Here's a single that also technically belongs to música popular brasileira.  
Samurai / Luz by Djavan, feat. Stevie Wonder  
[Samurai](https://youtu.be/qi5KhD9utfw) (1982)

This one goes in a much more pop or pop-soul / boogie / funk direction compared to the previous, and goes to show how loose the genre definition is.

MPB was the big genre I originally wanted to work towards since rec 854\. I think I'll end this series in around 4 recs from now, and I'll leave Bossa Nova, which I've recced numerous times but never talked about in depth, for another time.

Before moving onto the next stuff, here are some interesting songs from Rubinho Jacobina's 2004 album Rubinho e a Força Bruta, which appears to be quite unknown. I wasn't able to find any information about the artist, but it's a nice release.  
[Toc Toc](https://youtu.be/HeaTOXwnzo0)  
[Hora de Cuidar](https://youtu.be/vVg-2QRtBl8)
