---
layout: post
title: "858:"
date: 2023-04-24
---

Maracatu is an Afro-Brazilian musical genre which accompanies the cultural manifestation of the same name, hailing from the northeastern state of Pernambuco. Originally developed by African slaves and their descendants, maracatu is now associated with carnival, where maracatu blocs engage in elaborate dress, dance, and music, presenting a theatrical portrayal of the Portuguese royal court from colonial times which includes imagery from Afro-Brazilian religions such as candomblé. There are two main variants of maracatu, maracatu de baque-virado and maracatu de baque-solto, as well as a minor offshoot in the state of Ceará called maracatu cearense.

Baque-virado, also called maracatu-nação, is the most traditional style, being rooted in the major cities of Recife and Olinda. It is strictly percussive, featuring instruments such as alfaia, zabumba, caixa, tarol, ganza, gonguê, and shekeres. The players of the caixa or other snare drums maintain a constant roll so that the alfaia or zabumba drummers can punctuate it with syncopated rhythms. Typical time signatures are 4/4 and 6/8, with each 16th note being longer or shorter in length than the others, producing the distinctive "swing" that makes maracatu especially danceable.

Baque-solto, also called maracatu de orquestra or maracatu de trombone, is a rural variant which diverges from urban maracatu in many ways. Crucially, there is a brass band which accompanies the usual percussion ensemble. A female chorus introduces a loa (song), which is then complemented by refrains from the brass and percussion ensembles with a much faster rhythm than urban maracatu.

Maracatu cearense, with its especially slow and cadenced beat, is even more distanced from usual maracatu and its relation to the traditions from Pernambuco is sometimes contested.

From Mestre Ambrósio's self-titled 196 album  
[Pé de Calçada](https://youtu.be/7cJcJ2_BDn8)
