---
layout: post
title: "955:"
date: 2023-07-30
---

"Old-Time," aka Old-Timey was originally a marketing term used by OKeh Records to describe the music of Fiddlin' John Carson. Old Time is now generally used to describe the music of those who seek to preserve pre-Bluegrass styles of North American string band music. Usually led by a fiddle, old-time bands frequently feature a banjo played clawhammer, as opposed to three-finger, or Scruggs, style. A fiddle playing melody to the rhythmic accompaniment of a banjo is considered to be the classic form of Appalachian old-time, perhaps the best-known variant of the genre. Carson's old-time contemporaries included Gid Tanner. During the folk boom of the sixties, The New Lost City Ramblers were old-time's most prominent act. More recently, artists such as Old Crow Medicine Show and Uncle Earl have renewed interest in the genre.

The genre developed along with various North American folk dances, such as square dancing, clogging, and buck dancing

Moran Lee "Dock" Boggs was an American old-time singer, songwriter and banjo player. His style of banjo playing, as well as his singing, is considered a unique combination of Appalachian folk music and African-American blues. Here's a song from "Dock Boggs: Legendary Singer & Banjo Player," his 1964 album.  
[Oh Death](https://youtu.be/Eh3n6MqTGAg)

The exact origin of a lot of traditional folk songs is pretty ambiguous. This one may have been written by Madison County preacher Lloyd Chandler around 1916\.
