---
layout: post
title: "866:"
date: 2023-05-02
---

Samba originated in the 19th century from a blend of various styles of African rhythm music, forming a new sound and musical structure as well as the dance created along with it. Today it is considered one of the most important manifestations of Brazilian culture. The originating samba form is based on small circles of performers and singers (Samba de roda) which is directly influenced by Capoeira Music, exemplifying the African roots of the genre. This movement began in the Northeastern Brazilian state of Bahia, soon spread all across the coast and especially to Rio de Janeiro (considered the location of samba's inception as a distinct musical genre). There it was developed into a more modern sound compared to samba de roda, with influences from other genres such as Polka, Maxixe, lundu and Xote. In the 1930s, despite the existence of other regional samba styles, the urban samba of Rio de Janeiro became the most prominent through carnival ceremonies incorporating its sound and dance which vastly increased its exposure and popularity. Its adoption into carnival culture raised samba from a variable coastal phenomena to a genera of national identity, eventually leading to global renown. The other minor regional styles of samba changed towards a sound more similar to Rio's, but still contributed over the decades to the samba sound as it's known world-wide today.

Samba is structured on a beat, most often in 2/4 time signature, performed either by claps or percussion instruments like surdos, tantãs, pandeiros, tambourines and cuícas. String instruments, most commonly cavaquinho and other types of acoustic guitar, serve as an accompaniment. Starting in the 1940s and 1950s, wind instruments like flutes, trumpets and trombones were added to the sound due to the influence of North American orchestras. Keyboards and other electronic instruments were introduced in early 2000s, creating a form of samba very distinct from the traditional sound, falling under the umbrella of samba derived genres like Pagode and Pagodão.

Traditional samba remains influential and famous both in Brazil and abroad, despite its comparably small presence in today's popular music scene. Some of the most notable performers and songwriters of samba and its derived genres include Cartola, Adoniran Barbosa, Paulinho da Viola, Jorge Ben, Elza Soares, Chico Buarque, Dorival Caymmi and Carmen Miranda.

There's loads of really great samba music out there, so I'll be revisting the genre in the future.

For now, two songs from Novos Baianos 1972 album Acabou chorare. This album happens to be the highest rated Samba album on RYM, and the second highest rated Brazilian album in general.  
[Novos Baianos \- Brasil Pandeiro (Acabou Chorare) \[Áudio Oficial\]](https://youtu.be/gfeGjOg3HXA)  
[Mistério do Planeta](https://youtu.be/Eb5E3TzO0bw)

Novos Baianos conceived this album in response to the overwhelmingly melancholic and pessimistic tone of their contemporaries. The musical style is very laid-back yet instrumentally proficient. Just really feel-good stuff.
