---
layout: post
title: "899:"
date: 2023-06-04
---

I talked briefly about what Klezmer music is back on rec 21\. Klezmer is a form of Ashkenazi Music, characterised by expressive melodies that are reminiscent of the human voice, weeping, laughing, etc. The clarinet, violin, cimbalom, accordion, and trombone are commonly found in klezmer ensembles.

Here're a few tracks off of The Circle Maker, a 1998 album by American composer John Zorn. The album fuses Chamber Jazz and Klezmer for a very interesting Avant-garde Jazz sound.  
[Sippur by John Zorn (Masada String Trio)](https://youtu.be/3giMVuedUyg)  
[John Zorn \- Khebar](https://youtu.be/duOTEGOdVkE) (live performance)

I haven't listened through the full thing yet, as it runs for over 2 hours. That said, each of the tracks I've heard so far have been very well done and worthwhile.

[John Zorn \- Gevurah](https://youtu.be/Ajl28OdWqtc)  
[John Zorn \- Khebar](https://youtu.be/duOTEGOdVkE) (very catchy)

Starting from this one, I'll be talking about Punk and its subgenres. I'm not very well-acquainted with punk as a whole, so I'm not sure how long this series will be.

So far, I've only really talked about Proto-Punk (rec 656), Garage Rock (Rec 657), New Wave (682), Ska-Punk (rec 726\) and Deathrock (rec 896\) in depth, so those are the only ones I'll be skipping here.

First, a description of Punk-Rock itself.

Punk is a broad musical category and subculture that was born out of the Punk Rock movement. It ranges drastically in sound to sound from different subgenres, but typically a simplistic, aggressive, brash style is used, often based purely around power chord riffs. Vocal styles range greatly, from the snotty ramshackle vocals that defined early punk rock, to the more confrontational yelling of Hardcore Punk; later extreme Metal fusions would also introduce harsh growled and shrieked vocals to punk. Lyrically, punk tends to channel rebellion, with blunt, anti-establishment lyricism attacking the status quo, although these lyrics are often for shock value, and genre doesn't strictly confine itself to political lyrics, covering relationships and self-expression. The fashion of punk ranges from casual everyday wear to more over-the-top styles including piercings and mohawks. As a subculture, punk is known for its individualism, radical politics, and populist slant, as exemplified by its negative attitudes towards "selling out", and association with anarchism, though not all punks share these beliefs.

Punk's origins root back to the late 1960s and early 1970s, when its ancestor Garage Rock was adopting a rougher sound, closer to what we now know today as punk. Bands of this era are dubbed "Proto-Punk." Punk would emerge in the mid-1970s, with acts such as the Ramones (considered by some to be the first Pop Punk band for their catchy, Bubblegum-tinted sound) and Sex Pistols bringing the riotous punk sound to the limelight.
