---
layout: post
title: "863:"
date: 2023-04-29
---

Samba de roda is an Afro-Brazilian dance and music style that developed in the state of Bahia in Brazil. Predating the early 1900s rise of the traditional Brazilian Samba of Rio de Janeiro (often termed samba de morro or samba de raiz), samba de roda is thought to have originated circa the 17th century in the Recôncavo region within Bahia. The form mixed Portuguese culture with African slave traditions, as well as sharing roots and similarities with Batuque (more on this some other time) and Jongo. It is performed as part of various social occasions, as well as often following a religious candomblé ceremony.

'Roda' translates as 'wheel', referring to the circle that is an integral part of the dance. Participants form a circle, whilst others dance in the middle, traditionally primarily female. Musically, the basis of samba de roda is the solo-call and group-response vocals (sometimes known as the chula and the relativo) that accompany the dance. Handclaps also perform a highly syncopated, ostinato rhythm, as well as drums such as the atabaque being commonly used. Originally the 4-stringed machete was often performed as musical backing, later being replaced by either viola, cavaquinho or acoustic guitar.

Due to increased poverty in Bahia and the emerging popularity of other samba styles, the samba de roda suffered a decline of interest during the 20th century. Alongside traditional Rio samba, the style was an influence on Pagode, a commercialised, simple form of samba-dance developed in the late 1970s.

From Martinho da Vila's 1974 album Canta canta minha gente  
[Canta Canta, Minha Gente](https://youtu.be/pcQdxa1vS7Y)
