---
layout: post
title: "924:"
date: 2023-06-29
---

Oi\!

Oi\! is a sub-genre of Punk Rock that developed in the late 1970s in the United Kingdom, as a rejection to the burgeoning Art Punk genre. Steve Kent of notable oi\! band The Business described such music as being made by "trendy university people using long words, trying to be artistic... and losing touch." The name originates from the Cockney Rejects song "Oi Oi Oi", and the compilation it was taken from, Oi\! The Album. This release showcased a lot of prominent early oi\! bands, such as the above Cockney Rejects, Angelic Upstarts, and The 4 Skins.

Musically, oi\! is more simplistic when compared to those newer Punk bands. Usually it returns to the original roots of punk rock, whilst adding catchy melodies, football chants, and sing-along or drinking song styled choruses.

The ideology of the original oi\! movement related to the working class. The lyrics dealt often with unemployment, oppression by authorities, violence, and \- on a lighter note \- subjects such as drinking or football. Whilst in general most oi\! bands played for their class struggles, on the far right, the scene was a haven for white nationalist bands who sung fascist and racist songs. The series of concerts called "Rock Against Communism" \- which later developed into a scene of the same name \- was a breeding ground for far right oi\! bands such as Skrewdriver, No Remorse, and Skullhead. This rise in Neo-Nazi oi\! bands in the mid-1980s made it difficult for other bands in the scene, who are still to this day lumped together with the fascist acts, even though anti-fascist bands such as The Oppressed were openly against such ideologies.

From Peter and The Test Tube Babies 1983 album The Mating Sounds of South American Frogs  
[Jinx](https://youtu.be/v3VpvAHunGk)
