---
layout: post
title: "865:"
date: 2023-05-01
---

Candomblé music plays an essential part in rituals of the Afro-Brazilian religion by the same name. Due to civil unrest in Brazil during 1964, the public performing of candomblé music severely declined. In spite of this, the genre has had strong influence in other Brazilian music styles such as Afoxé, its secular counterpart.

Afoxé is an Afro-Brazilian genre of music that originated in the states of Pernambuco and Bahia. It is a non-religious version of Candomblé Music. The most characteristic element of afoxé is ijexá, a type of rhythm invented by the Yoruba people. The name could be translated as "the speech that makes it happen". In West Africa the expression "afoxé" denotes a profane-religious celebration performed in opportune occasions.

The main instruments in afoxé are afoxé (aka agbê), atabaques and the agogô. The afoxé is formed by seeds or stones on a net, creating a percussion sound when played. Atabaques are the ones responsible for the characteristic ijexá sound of the genre, and the agogô, formed by two vase-shaped metal pieces, brings the rhythm and beats to the music.

Afoxé is utilised in MPB by such artists as Gilberto Gil, Caetano Veloso, and Milton Nascimento. In the 1970s the genre was revived as part of a civil-rights campaign for Afro-Brazilians, in which the ideals of the political movement were promoted through the music.

From Gil e Jorge (Gilberto Gil and Jorge Ben)'s 1975 Afoxé album Ogum Xangô.  
[Quem Mandou (Pé Na Estrada)](https://youtu.be/BHUSXGZY_xA)
