---
layout: post
title: "859:"
date: 2023-04-25
---

Sertanejo de raiz is the earliest form of Sertanejo, emerging in pre-World War II rural Brazil during the late 1920s. Raiz, literally translating as 'roots' and initially known by the term música caipira, was originally developed by countryside Caipira performers, analogous to the Country music and hillbilly culture of the United States that sertanejo is often compared to.

Musically, sertanejo de raiz uses quickly strummed acoustic guitars, most commonly the 10-string viola caipira (often described as Brazil's national instrument) and classical guitar. A highly emotive vocal style is employed, often using 2-part close harmonies which are swiftly sung with lengthy lyrical lines. Group performances commonly use additional backing instrumentation such as violin, accordion, trumpet and light percussion. Lyrical fare typically concerns Brazilian cultural identity and pre-industrial working life.

During the style's development in the late 1920s, journalist Cornélio Pires invented the term dupla caipira, which saw two sertanejo singers perform together as a duo. The first such recording is Mariano e Caçula's "Jorginho do sertão" in 1929, whilst Moda de viola recordings, specifically focused around the viola caipira, followed soon after in the early 1930s. Over the ensuing decades, groups such as Pena Branca e Xavantinho, Tonico e Tinoco and Alvarenga e Ranchinho found fame in Brazil performing sertanejo de raiz. Whilst traditional forms of it are still frequently performed, sertanejo music has since found more commercial success with modern variations such as Sertanejo romântico and Sertanejo universitário.

Moda de viola is a style of Sertanejo de raiz, predominant in southeast, south and west-central Brazil. It consists of long verses of viola caipira, interspersed with choruses and solos. The accompaniment of the viola with acoustic guitar and accordion is also common, whilst lyrics often tell stories about life in the outback. The first records emerged in the 1930s with duos like Zico Dias e Ferrinho and Mandi e Sorocabinha. Decades later, the style gained popularity with Tonico e Tinoco and Tião Carreiro & Pardinho.

Inezita Barroso's 1953 single Moda da pinga / Ronda  
[Inezita Barroso \- MODA DA PINGA \- Ochestis Aguiar Laureano e Raul Torres \- 03.08.1953](https://youtu.be/WNtz_Eq4cXo)
