---
layout: post
title: "996:"
date: 2023-09-09
---

Since it's been more than a year since my Atmospheric Black Metal rec (602) (which seems kinda crazy to me), and in the spirit of the previous rec, I decided to revisit the genre.

Here are a couple tracks from American extreme metal band Agalloch's 2006 Post-Metal, Atmospheric Black Metal album Ashes Against the Grain.

[Falling Snow (2016 \- Remaster)](https://youtu.be/0kHJbEU6h1g)  
[Not Unlike The Waves (2016 \- Remaster)](https://youtu.be/gDH-YCCeL3c)

I won't redescribe Atmospheric Black Metal, but since I haven't talked about Post-Metal in depth before,

Post-metal is a subgenre of Metal that heavily utilises timbre and texture to have enormous song build-ups and huge atmosphere. The genre takes after Post-Rock and incorporates more heavy, metallic, and distorted guitar playing. Though it sometimes uses harsh vocals (sometimes screams or growls) that are typical to metal, a lot of it is mostly instrumental. It uses metal instrumentation for non-metal purposes by not focusing its attention on riffs or solos in favour of atmosphere and texture.

The genre often overlaps with Atmospheric Sludge Metal (). There are many post-metal bands that have a more standalone sound and remove a lot of the sludge influence, like Russian Circles and Perihelion. The blueprint of the post-metal sound hasrec 673 been mixed with other metal subgenres. One of the most common fusions of post-metal is with Black Metal and Blackgaze with Deafheaven being a primary example. Other fusions include with Drone Metal (Jesu) and Progressive Metal (Astronoid), among others.
