---
layout: post
title: "808:"
date: 2023-03-05
---

Sonorism is a style of Modern Classical composition characterised by techniques and forms that emphasise musical texture and timbre. With a basis in Serialism, Stochastic Music and modernist use of chromatic tone cluster chords, sonoristic works often combine atypical instrumental sounds into unconventional counterpoint or extremely dense textures. This can include 'sound mass' composition (as used by Krzysztof Penderecki and Karel Husa), as well as other styles with the intention of de-emphasising traditionally important aspects of music, such as melody, rhythm and harmony, in favour of texture, timbre, dynamics and articulation. Sonorism is not necessarily orchestral or instrumental, as it can also be used in choral music that emphasises sonic aspects of texts, such as Penderecki's Stabat Mater, as well as Electroacoustic and Musique concrète works, such as those of Bogusław Schaeffer and Andrzej Dobrowolski. Sonorism often employs post-tonal chromaticism and microtonality, as well as usage of extended playing techniques and articulations of traditional instruments to create unusual tone colours.

Coined as a compositional concept in 1956, sonorism and its techniques emerged from the Polish avant-garde of the early 1960s. The genre was associated with the works of notable Polish composers such as Krzysztof Penderecki, and the early styles of Henryk Mikołaj Górecki and Wojciech Kilar. Some composers and musicologists saw the genre as an alternative reaction against serialism, while others saw it as an expansion of its principles. Since the '60s, some sonoristic works have incorporated elements of Indeterminacy, Spectralism, Drone and Minimalism.

Here's Dies irae (Auschwitz Oratorium); Polymorphia; De natura sonoris, by Krzysztof Penderecki  
[Krzysztof Penderecki \- Dies irae (Auschwitz Oratorium); Polymorphia; De natura sonoris](https://youtu.be/ommO1vOqMCE)  
You can read up about the Latin Hymn Dies Irae here: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dies\_irae](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dies_irae)
