---
layout: post
title: "908:"
date: 2023-06-13
---

Skate Punk

Skate punk can refer to two distinct styles of Punk Rock. The contemporary use of the term skate punk describes a style which combines the speed of Melodic Hardcore with the catchiness of Pop Punk.

The original bands of the early 1980s to be labelled as skate punk were Hardcore Punk and Crossover Thrash bands with a large skater following. While the popularly accepted definition of skate punk has changed, some modern crossover thrash bands are still referred to as skate punk.

The modern incarnation of skate punk is strongly rooted in the style of melodic hardcore characteristic of Bad Religion. This interpretation of skate punk blends melodic hardcore with the catchiness and youthful fun of pop punk. The majority of skate punk bands have two guitar players to create a fuller sound. Skate punk songs are often characterised with guitar leads through out the whole song, ranging from octave progressions, complex muted riffs and guitar solos played in harmony. Tempos can reach speeds of up to 270bpm, mainly focusing on upbeat drums. Vocals can be clear or somewhat abrasive and are often sung in harmony. Bands like NOFX, The Offspring, Millencolin, Face to Face and Pennywise helped this style of punk rock develop and gain in popularity in the early to mid 1990s. Skate punk saw another, even larger boom in popularity around the turn of the millennium with the huge commercial success of acts like Blink-182 and Sum 41\.

Both styles of skate punk are often used in soundtracks of skateboard videos and are prominently featured in the soundtracks to popular video game series Tony Hawk's Pro Skater.

Here's a track from The Arrogant Sons of Bitches' 2006 album Three Cheers for Disappointment  
[The Arrogant Sons of Bitches \- So Lets Go\! Nowhere \[music video\]](https://youtu.be/XTXpWHTw-Gw) (uploaded 2007\)  
Very 2000s energy.

Streetlight Manifesto from rec 726 is also considered skate punk.
