---
layout: post
title: "291:"
date: 2021-10-04
---

I'll try to make this the last Hirasawa rec for a while. From his 1994 album Aurora: Love Song
 Susumu Hirasawa - Love Song
https://youtu.be/GfrLSWXAx1Q English Lyrics are as follows: That calling voice dyes the skies a vermilion hue The falling rain goes on for miles and miles It cries like an angel that fostered a thousand dreams in the silent night That voice That voice Those children standing like soldiers greet the days of suffering with the sun on their fists It sleeps in the faith that you will have a future In silent prayer it sings That voice That voice (x3) ※A love song that blooms as the flowers A love song that blows as the wind A love song that rises as the waves A love song that weeps for the people In the far off skies luck will be with you The rain glistens all over your body It counted out the woven days dyeing the skies a vermilion hue It calls out to you like an angel That voice That voice ※Repeat x5 This song together with High-Minded Castle were released free of charge to protest against the Iraq war. His style of singing in it is very subdued. They both have some of his most powerful lyrics and content matter, in my opinion. 


From his 2003 album Blue Limbo: High Minded Castle
 High Minded Castle By Susumu Hirasawa2 Hours Of Epic Power Metal Pt. 1 // Best Of Power Metal Compilation // AFM Records
https://youtu.be/x8MTeqf--_M 
English Lyrics are as follows: 
On an angry hill, the moaning wind fades the flowers of rage You answer faint voices of children in the farthest land From sinfully shining machines, Fake day and unmerciful fire are spun out like a rumbling avalanche They bury the voices and kill the wind Birds overhead keep moaning as if they are questioning Do you abandon your identity of being human? Is there no hope in your weakly shivering heart? Declarations are spread out far and wide Forged justice and derisive fire are spun out like a rumbling avalanche They bury the voices and fall the birds With closing eyes you sink deeply into your steep mind You, a wise shadow, stand on the furiously angry hill Can you hear? The sound of children in the farthest land are burned It never stops on the hill of yours with the high mind Sing for the children in the farthest land They endure on the ground face down and look up to the sky in envy for the tomorrow they are missing From sinfully shining machines, Perjurious principle and untold blood is spun out like a rumbling avalanche They bury the voices and kill the song The sound of the mothers in the farthest land are shot Write it down filling walls of yours with high mind Can you hear? The sound of the children in the farthest land are burning 
It never stops on the hill of yours with a high mind Can you hear? The sound of the mothers in the farthest land are shot It never stops on this earth of yours with a high mind
