---
layout: post
title: "58: Fela Kuti"
date: 2021-02-13
---

Fela Kuti is an immensely important musician, both culturally and historically. He was a Nigerian instrumentalist and political activist who pioneered Afrobeat by mixing Apala music, funk, jazz, highlife, salsa, calypso, and traditional Yoruba music. His music is vibrant and energetic.

Here’s one of my favorites, from 1977: 

[Fela Kuti - "Shuffering and Shmiling"](https://youtu.be/Y--5IlljO78).

For a more modern spin on one of his works, here’s Newen Afrobeat's cover of "Opposite People," from 2017. This performance features Seun Kuti, the youngest son of Fela Kuti. Seun Kuti also leads his father's former band Egypt 80:

[Newen Afrobeat - "Opposite People"](https://youtu.be/mFSRCG4DrmI).

Some interesting facts about Fela Kuti’s life:
- He was a vocal critic of Nigerian government corruption and oppression, which led to frequent arrests and police raids.
- His communal compound, the Kalakuta Republic, served as a home, recording studio, and political commune.
- Fela survived a brutal attack by soldiers who destroyed Kalakuta Republic in 1977.
- Known for his polygamy, he reportedly had 28 wives and 7 children.
- His music often included long, complex compositions with socially charged lyrics.

Here’s an interesting Wikipedia article about Kalakuta Republic, the communal compound housing his family, band members, and recording studio before its destruction: [Kalakuta Republic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kalakuta_Republic)
