---
layout: post
title: "365:"
date: 2021-12-17
---

lets do something else on this one.

It's been a year (+3 days) since starting these. Today I'll just be giving some statistics on the genres I've covered so far, by how many times the relevant artist is mentioned: 
For the larger genres and subgenres (2 or more mentions): 
Bluegrass 2 
Folk and Neo-Folk 7 
Irish 3
Classical and Impressionist 8 
Baroque and Renaissance 2 
Neo-Classical and Romantic 12
Trip-hop 4 
Hip-hop 5 
Rap 5 
Trap 2


Industrial and D&B 5 
EDM 16 
EBM 2 
IDM 8 
Webcore 5 
Breakcore and Glitch 6
Neo-Classical, Black, Prog, Punk, Power, Symphonic, and Heavy Metal 7
Funk, Disco 3 
Soul, R&B, Gospel 4
Math Rock, Emo Rock, and Indie Rock 6 
Punk, Post-Punk, and Noise Rock 6 
Prog Rock 2 
Psychedelic Rock 1 
Alt Rock 4 
Post Rock 4
Psychedelia, Dream pop 3 
Electro Pop 5 
World Music/pop 9 
Miscellaneous Pop 2


Asian World Music 9 
African music (Reggae, Afrobeat and Afropop) 6
Digital Fusion 9 
Chiptune 10 
Synthwave, Chillwave, and Synthpop 4
Vaporwave 2 
Slurpcore 2 
Lofi 2 
Ambient 40 
Misc Electronica (Including almost everything from Hirasawa) 20 Electronic pioneers 3
Soundtrack 96 
OST Cover Music and remixes 10 
Choral and Religious Music 7
Vocaloid 9 
J-Rock 2 
J-Pop 9 
Jazz (Gypsy Jazz and various modern subgenres) 21 
Bebop, Cool Jazz, Modal Jazz, Hard Bop, Free Jazz 5 
Jazz Fusion, Third Stream, and Jazztronica 10 
Bossa Nova 7 
Choro 4 
Klezmer 2


"Misc Electronica" mostly consists of artists who work primarily in other genres, particularly soundtrack composers such as Kevin Penkin. Also includes Sound Collage. in "Ambient" I included a number of subgenres and microgenres, such as nature and dark-nature ambient, space ambient, and tribal ambient, along with drone music. It should be noted that some genres were only present from soundtracks (ie. ambient space country in the Rimworld, Firefly, and Hardspace: Shipbreaker soundtracks) but are still only categorized next to "Soundtrack." A few of the subgenres and microgenres that I only mention once or twice (eg. Shibuya-Kei, psybreak, folktronica, etc) were either distributed between multiple genres or aren't included above). When an artist works in multiple genres, I generally just pick the most applicable one. Other genres I mentioned only once not present in the list include reggae, power noise, footwork, baroque pop, hardvapor, plunderphonics, goblincore, witch house, skweee, nu-disco, nu-jazz, Neurofunk, bitpop, and a few others. I didn't include breakbeat as a genre, though a few of the recs were about music focused on breakbeats/
