---
layout: post
title: "345: Vocaloid Highlights — takamatt, Kikuo, and More"
date: 2021-11-27
---

Here are a couple tracks by takamatt, a Vocaloid producer. He uses GUMI (initially released in June 2009 for the VOCALOID2 engine, with three GUMI installments having since been developed for the VOCALOID3 engine, including an update of the VOCALOID2 voice bank. Also updated to VOCALOID4), which I haven't covered before, for most of his works.

[Just a Game~ takamatt feat. Gumi {English Sub}](https://youtu.be/ybbOigXZqqs) (June 3, 2010)  

[TOKIO FUNKA /トキヲ・ファンカ - takamatt feat.GUMI](https://youtu.be/bcLYdxMusHc) (May 27, 2013)  

The former of those two songs, *Just a Game*, has entered the "Hall of Legends," while the latter, *Tokio Funka*, has entered the "Hall of Fame." Those are terms used for VOCALOID videos (largely songs) that have gained a certain number of plays on video sharing site Niconico. On the Vocaloid fandom wiki, the following tags can be used to search for songs (applies for Japanese songs):

- Just before entering VOCALOID Hall of Fame (VOCALOID殿堂入り直前: 90,900-99,999 views) [currently 425 songs]  
- Entering the VOCALOID Hall of Fame (VOCALOID殿堂入り: 100,000-899,999 views) [currently 5521 songs]  
- Just before entering VOCALOID Legends (VOCALOID伝説入り直前: 900,000-999,999 views) [currently 75 songs]  
- Entering VOCALOID Legends (VOCALOID伝説入り: 1,000,000 - 9,999,999 views) [currently 611-782]  
- Entering VOCALOID Myths (VOCALOID神話入り: 10,000,000 views and above) [currently 8-9]  

Among the songs I've already mentioned at some point, *Lagtrain* by inabakumori, released in 2020, has already entered VOCALOID Legends. This is pretty rare, and very impressive. My favorite vocaloid song, *Anagura-gurashi* (published 2018) by Kikuo, has only entered the VOCALOID Hall of Fame. Kikuo's most popular track, *Gomenne Gomenne* (published 2012, very disturbing lyrics), despite having hit 11,479,000+ YouTube views, still just barely remains in the Hall of Fame rather than entering Legends.

*HACHI / DUNE ft.Miku Hatsune* (published 2017, 9,465,000+ Niconico views, 69,486,000+ YouTube views) has almost reached the Hall of Myths. HACHI, by the way, is an alias of Kenshi Yonezu, who I talked about on rec 185.  

[ハチ MV「砂の惑星 feat.初音ミク」HACHI / DUNE ft.Miku Hatsune](https://youtu.be/AS4q9yaWJkI)  

*Miku Miku ni Shite Ageru* (published 2007) is, for some reason, the vocaloid song with the most plays on Niconico with 15,712,000+. This puts it in the Hall of Myth. Following *Miku Miku ni Shite Ageru* in plays is *Senbonzakura* (published 2011) with 15,243,000+ on Niconico. Almost all of the songs within the Hall of Myth feature Hatsune Miku.

Here’s that track I mentioned, *Gomenne gomenne*, Kikuo's most popular:  
[[Official HQ] Kikuo - ごめんね ごめんね "Gomennne gomennne"](https://youtu.be/I1mOeAtPkgk) — very catchy chorus
