---
layout: post
title: "385:"
date: 2022-01-06
---

Speaking of organs, here are two tracks using an electric organ, the Hammond Organ: Korla Pandit (September 16, 1921 – October 2, 1998), born John Roland Redd, was an American musician, composer, pianist, and organist. After moving to California in the late 1940s and getting involved in show business, Redd became known as "Korla Pandit", a French-Indian musician from New Delhi, India. However, Redd was actually a light-skinned African-American man from Missouri who passed as Indian (this was decades before the end of racial segregation in the US). A pathbreaking musical performer in the early days of television, Redd is known for Korla Pandit's Adventures In Music; the show was the first all-music program on television. He also performed live and on radio and made various film appearances, becoming known as the "Godfather of Exotica". Redd maintained the Korla Pandit persona—both in public and in private—and his secret was maintained until after the end of his life.
 Korla Pandit - Miserlou
https://youtu.be/G9ytSC8rz84




And here's a jazz standard, moanin', performed by American soul-jazz organist Rhoda Scott. Super clean playing, even when using unconventional techniques (i.e. 1:51 where she claws the keys to strike keys on both manuals quick succession with one hand). Interestingly, she plays the pedals with no shoes or socks on, a habit that began when she started playing the church organ.
 Moanin' - Rhoda Scott 1972
https://youtu.be/oIB2ywz3S9o


"Misirlou" is a folk song from the Eastern Mediterranean region, with origins in the Ottoman Empire. The original author of the song is not known, but Arabic, Greek, and Jewish musicians were playing it by the 1920s. It was featured in the films Pulp Fiction and Taxi. Here's Dick Dale's surf rock version:
 Miserlou
https://youtu.be/mKpsuGMeqHI


Dick Dale (Born May 4, 1937), was an American rock guitarist. He was the pioneer of surf music, drawing on Middle Eastern music scales and experimenting with reverb. Dale was known as "The King of the Surf Guitar", which was also the title of his second studio album.
