---
layout: post
title: "469:"
date: 2022-03-31
---

"Playing a five-string acoustic bass, Renaud Garcia-Fons offers a type of global music that owes some of its potency and stylistic flexibility to jazz improvisation. But Garcia-Fons writes in the short liner note to Oriental Bass that his dream of a bass "half Gypsy and half Mauretanian" takes the instrument through Andalusia and the Mediterranean. His compositions travel the same routes, drawing in trombone, flutes, accordion, flamenco guitar, tablas, lute, derbouka, daf, and more. The mix of hand percussion from Eastern Europe and North Africa with flamenco flairs makes Garcia-Fons's music dizzying. This is very springy music, bouncing and bounding with choruses of horns pulsing powerfully. Few composers can balance, much less thrive in, the panoply of national styles that Garcia-Fons draws in with Oriental Bass." From the 1997 album "Oriental Bass" by Renaud Garcia-Fons.
 Renaud Garcia-Fons - Oriental Bass
https://youtu.be/7At34EWUnAM 
This one's worth a listen to get a feel for contemporary Arabic jazz (notably though, the Arabic elements here come from the playing style and some instrumentation, on some tracks more than others, so maybe not the "purest" choice). At least, its a good introduction to World Jazz, or worth a listen for fans of the genre. The rest of the album is on Spotify, though his album "Silk Moon" with Derya Türkan is somewhat more popular.

 Renaud García Fons & Derya Türkan Silk Moon Morgenland Festival Osnabrueck
https://youtu.be/0VzZjFiWGRU?t=7
Live performance Bass played like an Oud (or played to sound like an oud). Very interesting. Definitely Jazz Fusion
