---
layout: post
title: "542:"
date: 2022-06-12
---

Broken Transmission aka "Signalwave" describes music that uses samples taken from TV broadcasts, advertising, film, radio, and other sources - often slowing down and manipulating the sound heavily. ひまわり画像 (Himawari gazou or "Sunflower Image") by 天気予報 [Weather Forecast] is a 2019 Broken Transmission, Jingles, and TV Music Album with vaporwave elements. It is considered by some to be Signalwave's magnum opus. It runs for just over 6 hours and 20 minutes, with 360 tracks total. 

The slight manipulation and lo-fi quality of the songs and voices in the album is (probably intentionally) a little bit off-putting at times. Others might find it relaxing. 

The main goals of this music, in my mind, are 1, to immerse the listener into the world the artist has curated, 2, to provide a means of escape from the listeners' life to a time and place where these archaic Japanese TV adverts and weather reports would play, and 3, to facilitate a sense of nostalgia for those who grew up hearing these sounds. 

And so, the question is - is this album a step into real life, or a step out of it? 

Getting to experience so many musical styles in the forms of adverts and commercials, jingles, etc, is endlessly interesting. The underlying feelings of surreality, mystery, and soothing lend an incredibly unique feeling to the album - one you can only get with signalwave. Its worth mentioning that, as far as I am aware, Weather Forecast's collection of archaic Japanese ads, jingles, etc. is unparalleled. It's extremely hard to find this stuff elsewhere, at least when using English. 

A few good places to skip to or start at for the earlier part of the album are 13:18, 24:45, and 2:06:17:
 天気予報 – ひまわり画像 (Full Album)
https://youtu.be/8OrIsuf4WVg 
The most shocking moment of my listen-through was earlier on, at 46:14, where "Reflections" by Toshifumi Hinata (rec 181) plays. I knew it was a popular song, but I didn't guess that it was used in broadcasting, let alone that it would pop up in this album.
