---
layout: post
title: "529:"
date: 2022-05-30
---

life-changing
 [60fps Full] PoPiPo ぽっぴっぽー - Hatsune Miku 初音ミク DIVA Dreamy theater ドリーミーシアター English Romaji
https://youtu.be/TNf3GPizM58 
this song was first published December 11, 2008, after World is Mine but before pretty much any other VOCALOID tracks I've entered here. It's in VOCALOID Legends, the highest class aside from VOCALOID Myths. 

Here's a brief summary of the VOCALOID timeline: 

Early Vocaloid (2004-2007) Version 1 of Vocaloid becomes available to the public on March 3, 2004. At this point its a simple voice synthesizer program. 

Rise of Vocaloid (2007--2009) Hatsune Miku is released on August 31st, 2007. As part of the Character Vocal series, she was marketed as the mascot character for her voicebank. She immediately becomes immensely popular, an iconic character in anime subculture, setting the precedent for future voicebanks to likewise have character mascots. 

Lots of VOCALOID songs from this time quickly went viral, with specific tracks raising standards for Vocaloid music and inspiring present and future producers. 

The rest of the Character Vocal series (eg. Kagamine Rin/Len, Megurine Luka) is released by the next year or so, completing the Piapro Family (MEIKO, KAITO, Miku, Rin/Len, Luka) owned by Crypton Future Media, Inc. which many consider the "main" Vocaloids. 

Golden Age of Vocaloid (2009-2015) The real "Golden Age" of VOCALOID is somewhat contested as a concept, but many would consider this to be the time frame. Most of the most popular songs were released during this period, and the following and interest in the genre were at all-time highs. 

Post-Golden Age (2015-Present) Since then, in some ways the popularity of VOCALOID has fallen, or plateaued. The majority of the fans from 2009-2015 were teens who have since grown up and moved on from the culture, same for many producers. That said, there'll still occasionally be a big hit like Lagtrain or Hole-Dwelling.
