---
layout: post
title: "500:"
date: 2022-05-01
---

I've mentioned Shibuya-Kei something like 6 times now, but never recced a pure Shibuya-Kei album. Again, Shibuya-kei is an eclectic Pop scene from Japan, originating in the late 1980s and popularised through the early 1990s. The name, translating literally as "Shibuya-style", specifically refers to the Shibuya shopping district of Tokyo, an area which at the time was considered the epicentre of fashion with its throwbacks to Western retro and kitsch culture, particularly of the 1960s. Also central to the Shibuya district and its culture were its record stores, stocked with import records from Europe and the United States, whose musical styles would form the basis for a Shibuya-kei movement which reflected the fashion styles popular in the district. The early pioneers of what would come to be known as Shibuya-kei were Pizzicato Five, drawing heavily from Lounge and Bossa nova, and Flipper's Guitar, whose sound was initially based off that of "neo-acoustic" groups, a Japanese term for a blend between Indie Pop and Jangle Pop. As newer artists like Takako Minekawa, Fishmans, and Kahimi Karie became part of the scene in the following years, influences as broad ranging as Yé-yé, Psychedelic Pop, Exotica, Jazz, Dub, Funk, and Disco were thrown into this melting pot of retro styles. Other artists like FPM and Towa Tei brought in the influence of electronic styles like House and Downtempo. Later, elements of elements of Psychedelic Rock, Shoegaze, Indietronica, and Neo-Psychedelia were added, then chamber pop, then chiptune to create the substyle sometimes known as Picopop. 恋人へ (Koibito e) is one of the most beloved albums from this genre. It's a somewhat recent one, though, released 2004. Only the first song has that Lo-Fi quality. The second song off the album is super beautiful. The last track off the album is the most bossa nova.
 Lamp「恋人へ」(2004)
https://youtu.be/-ILcH66zGcY

For a slightly older album falling into the same genre try Orange by Fishmans (released 1994). Its more rock-based and less bossa nova.
 Fishmans - Orange (Full Album)
https://youtu.be/fGDR_S5Jfxk?t=655 I mentioned an experimental dream-pop and psychedelia album (Long Season) from this band on rec 228. In any case, I'd still recommend the above album by Lamp first and foremost. I saved it for rec 500 not only because the genre is interesting, but also because I like that particular album so much. True Sunshine Pop.

phew and I'm caught up It's been exactly 500 days since starting, now.
