---
layout: post
title: "530:"
date: 2022-05-31
---

Einstein on the Beach is an opera in four acts (framed and connected by five "knee plays" or intermezzos), composed by Philip Glass and directed by theatrical producer Robert Wilson, who also collaborated with Glass on the work's libretto. The opera eschews traditional narrative in favor of a formalist approach based on structured spaces laid out by Wilson in a series of storyboards The music was written "in the spring, summer and fall of 1975." It premiered July 25, 1976 at the Avignon Festival in France. The work became the first in Glass's thematically related Portrait Trilogy, along with Satyagraha (1979), and Akhnaten (1983). These three operas were described by Glass as portraits of people whose personal vision transformed the thinking of their times through the power of ideas rather than by military force. There is of course an important visual aspect to the performance, but as I couldn't find a full version with great audio quality on YouTube, and since this channel is about music, here's the music on it's own in a playlist.
 Einstein on the Beach: Knee Play 1
https://youtu.be/FowSeDVoV48?list=PL8kG3bjhFO6_IQyAqU528BmXsLaHW1lYQ 
Both the plays themselves, as well as the music, are very interesting. Like almost all of Glass' other popular works, these songs belong to the genre of Minimalism, a style developed in the United States in the 1960s; recognized for its repetitive nature and use of static harmony. Unlike Glass' solo works (not accompanying operatic performance) many of these tracks are very choral. Since it's my first time talking on Philip Glass, I should add that, as an American composer and pianist, he is widely regarded as one of the most influential composers of the late 20th century. The first track is short, and particularly worth a listen.

These recordings from 2013 and 2014 have good audio and visual quality.
 Einstein on the Beach - Spaceship
https://youtu.be/xwF2JipCWTs?t=259
 Einstein on the Beach - Philip Glass
https://youtu.be/1cS-WFNLBVk

Interestingly, another minimal composer I'm fond of, Steve Reich, is the same age as Philip Glass. In fact, these two pioneers of Minimalism, when they were both 77, put aside a personal and professional feud that lasted more than 40 years and, for the first time since the early ’70s, performed together as they had in their early days so often and so momentously. This occurred at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. It was well-known that in their early days, Reich and Glass played their music with colleagues in lofts and museums while holding odd jobs, and as their careers took off, there were apparently issues of professional rivalry. Though over the years they never denied the feud, they also did not talk about it. I'll do something composed or scored by Steve Reich next.

good looking 77 years olds
 Sims cat break-dancing
https://youtu.be/wLkfz10Srxw
