---
layout: post
title: "580:"
date: 2022-07-20
---

Here's another interesting work that requires a thorough listen-through to get the whole picture.

Ground Zero was a Japanese noise/improvisation band during the 1990s led by the guitarist and turntablist Otomo Yoshihide that had a large and rotating group of performers with two other regular performers. 革命京劇 (Revolutionary Pekinese Opera) Ver.1.28 is their most well-known release, a Sound Collage/Plunderphonics/Turntable/Avant-Prog/Musique concrète album from 1995. I'll talk about Revolutionary opera (AKA: 样板戏, Yangban xi, Model Opera) after this one.

Conceptually, this album is based on samples from Revolutionary Peking Opera, the most prominent samples are from Frankfurt - Peking by Heiner Goebbels & Alfred Harth (released 1984, also worth a listen), the last track on it, distorted, and chopped up. 

On top of this base layer there's a variety of samples from commercials, political speeches, movie lines, etc.

On top of all that again there's the band, Ground Zero, with free jazz/avant-prog/noise rock improv over it. 

3 simultaneous, chaotic layers.

Track 7 Paraiso 1 (24:24) is a blissful intermission between the two chaotic halves of the album on either side of it. 

Track 10 Grand Pink Junction Ballad (33:22) has the jazz improv mentioned before, along with screaming. If you only listen to one track off the album, this should be it. 
 Ground Zero - Revolutionary Peking Opera ver 1.28
https://youtu.be/INQIvD_utaM
international_man said it best
