---
layout: post
title: "505:"
date: 2022-05-06
---

Surprised I haven't talked about Nujabes yet, so now's the time. He's pretty well-known, so I won't go into depth. Jun Seba, aka Nujabes, was a Japanese record producer, audio engineer, DJ, composer and arranger best known for his atmospheric instrumental mixes sampling from hip hop, soul, and jazz, with some trip hop, breakbeat, downtempo, and ambient music elements. He lived from 1974 to 2010, and his music remains immensely popular. 

Shingo Annen, better known by his stage name Shing02, is a Japanese American hip hop recording artist, record producer, activist and investor who was described by Patrick Neate as one of the Japanese emcees who "has addressed important issues from Japanese ethnicity to sexual exploitation to the education system." He was born in 1975, and is still active 

Luv(sic) Hexalogy is a compilation of the 6 Luv(sic) singles released by this duo, including remixes and instrumentals by various artists.
 Nujabes feat Shing02 - Luv(sic) Hexalogy [Full Album]
https://youtu.be/jfTdzrtGKuY 
The 6 original singles go up to 31:34 in the video, followed by the remixes. Parts 1 and 4 are my favorites. Lo-fi Hip-Hop I can get behind. Besides falling into the genres of Jazz Rap and Japanese Hip Hop, Nujabes' music and this album in particular belong to the genre of "Boom Bap," a style of Hip Hop production that was popular during the 1990s, particularly within the eastern United States, and is most commonly associated with the ‘golden era’ of East Coast Hip Hop (Super easy to hear on Illmatic by Nas, Ready to Die by Biggie, Enter the Wu-Tang, and Midnight Marauders by A Tribe Called Quest) The term boom bap is an onomatopoeia that describes the kick (boom) and snare (bap) drum pattern that defines this genre. The style is identified by an acoustic-sounding drum loop that uses a kick drum on the downbeat followed by a cracking snare drum on the upbeat.
