---
layout: post
title: "541:"
date: 2022-06-11
---

Last month, after around a year and a half, the Dariacore trilogy was completed. I refer to 3 albums from an 18-year old artist; leroy (aka dltzk, c0ncernn). These albums are "Dariacore", "Dariacore 2: Enter Here, Hell to the Left", and "Dariacore 3... At Least I Think That's What It's Called?" These works fall into the genres of EDM, Glitch Hop, Mashcore Nightcore, Digicore, Hyperpop, Trap [EDM], Future Bass, Mashup, Breakcore, Brostep, Jersey Club... etc... Truly, this is zoomercore. 

Specifically, Leroy's works focus on hyperspeed pop song mashups, with the intentions 1, be funny, and 2, to be in some way nostalgic, self-referential, or at least reminiscent of some internet culture from the early 2000s - for context, Daria was an american animated comedy series that started airing March 3, 1997. 

The sheer amount of noise (bit-crushed vocals, blown out samples, and high pitched vocals) and complexity in each song makes these albums difficult listens for people not familiar with HexD and Hyperpop. The reception on all three of these albums is very varied, definitely a love-it or hate-it situation. A common criticism most of the "hate-its" make is that the music feels as though it was cheaply made with only style in mind, and with little artistic depth. 

Whether intentional by Leroy or not, that "lack of artistic depth" can kind of be seen as the whole point. From one review of the first album by "nikochurro" on RYM,: "it's not meant to boil down to anything, whatever specific vocal or keyboard sample bent out of shape isn't meant to provoke any deep meaning or conjure up tons upon tons of paragraphs worth of analytical speculation about anything, and that in itself sort of provokes an odd yet completely understandable and relatable key motif. this is euphoric music for having a fun time" here are some Dariacore songs:
 leroy - virginity rockstar
https://youtu.be/-4FjyBz7Ovs
 Leroy - We Love Your Vibe
https://youtu.be/tsvqWh6FrKU
 leroy - the joke is on you
https://youtu.be/im-Tp6M5vSY
 Leroy - Her Head Is Soooo Rolling!! Love Her
https://youtu.be/s3Fx8jrdhYo (might be my favorite)
