---
layout: post
title: "594:"
date: 2022-08-03
---

I put off listening to Bjork for a long time; what feels like more than half a decade. I had listened to her most popular songs, Venus as a Boy and Army of Me, but I didn't understand what about those songs or the rest of her music made her so popular. Once I listened through Vespertine, I finally understood what all the fuss was about.
 björk : hidden place (HD)
https://youtu.be/54LQ_AO1gDI (first track)
 Björk - Frosti - Music Video
https://youtu.be/NL3SBG2KdP0 (instrumental interlude)
 Aurora
https://youtu.be/uRxVV9b7_8I (immediately follows interlude)

Björk Guðmundsdóttir OTF (Order of the Falcon); is an Icelandic singer, songwriter, composer, record producer, and actress. Over her four-decade career, she has developed an eclectic musical style that draws on influences and genres including electronic, pop, experimental, trip hop, classical, and avant-garde music.

Vespertine was released 2001, and was recorded the previous year. On RYM it's ranked #1 for 2001, #41 overall. Keep in mind that Weezer (Green Album) also came out this year. It belongs to the genres of Art Pop, Electronic
Ambient Pop, Glitch Pop, and Microsound, which I'll talk about tomorrow.


With Vespertine, Bjork blends acoustic and the electronic, and what follows are mystifying, sensual, and alien soundscapes on every track. Her voice is beautiful. The harps, strings, and choir are evocative. The lyrics are very personal. And it's hard to find anything fault-like about the songwriting.

Much of Vespertine is infused with a sense of "winter" throughout; The instrumental "Frosti" twinkles like icicles, leading into the opening "beats" of "Aurora" which are actually plodding footsteps through snow. Even her singing in Cocoon sounds shiver-induced.

Listening through the album for the first time, each track kept me completely engaged. I wish I had listened to this album earlier, yet I'm now reluctant to listen through the rest of her discography since I'm not sure they could even compare.

Art Pop is one of the genres I'm less acquainted with, compared to EDM, IDM, Breakcore, Gnomecore, etc. That said, now, along with Radiohead's A Moon Shaped Pool, Susumu Hirasawa's Kyuusai no gihou, Gorillaz' Demon Days, and Elsiane's Mechanics of Emotion, Vespertine has become one of my favorite albums of the genre.
