---
layout: post
title: "513:"
date: 2022-05-14
---

Since I'm on Kayōkyoku, now's the time to talk about "Idol kayō". This was a more Westernized and upbeat form of Kayōkyoku popular in the 1970s and 1980s, and it acted as a main precursor to J-Pop. The genre was named for its focus on "idol" singers. In contrast with earlier forms of kayōkyoku like "mood kayō", idol kayō often has a more upbeat and overtly Westernized sound, combining Vocal Jazz-informed singing and orchestrated Traditional Pop roots with newer American styles like Soul and Disco, and light forms of Pop Rock like Soft Rock and Yacht Rock. 

The genre exploded in popularity in the 1970s, led by young female singers like Momoe Yamaguchi and Junko Sakurada, and groups like Candies. The 1980s subsequently would come to be known as the "Golden Age of Idols" due to the massive popularity of idol singers like Seiko Matsuda and Akina Nakamori, and at the height of its popularity there were several dozen idols premiering every year. At this time idol kayō would both influence and take influence from the funky, urban sound of City Pop, and would also have crossover with the more synth-oriented Techno kayō in the mid-1980s. Here are two popular albums from this genre, both of which I'm a fan of. Adventure by Kikuchi Momoko (1986)
 Momoko Kikuchi - Adventure (1986) [full album][lyrics]
https://youtu.be/1KP9dLRaKWg (Synthwave) Love by Yuki Saito: (1996)  
 斉藤由貴 LOVE （Full Album）
https://youtu.be/sxEzSDVoHEU (Dream Pop, Sophisti-Pop)

That second album's first track is particularly good. One of my favorite songs from the second half of the Shōwa-era. Incidentally, with this I've now done Kayōkyoku (Shōwa-era pop) music from the 60s, 70s, and 80s. The 1950s–1960s are considered the Mood kayō era, while the 1970s–1980s can be considered to be the Idol kayō era.


 Kendrick Lamar - United In Grief (Official Audio)
https://youtu.be/tvNSXS4x9nc?t=84 Breakbeat-type breaks in the new Kendrick, 1:27
