---
layout: post
title: "520:"
date: 2022-05-21
---

Nova cançó. Under the Franco dictatorship in Spain all regional languages were excluded from the public education system and its use was restricted (particularly during the 1940s and 1950s) and deemed as non-official. 
Nova cançó ("new song") came from the 1960s in Catalonia as a way to resist the dictatorship by singing in Catalan. 
Els Setze Jutges were the most important artist collective in this genre and their main influences were Chanson, Catalonian culture and Poetry. In comparison, the artist collective Grup de Folk had an irreverent attitude and were strongly influenced by American Folk Rock and more modern styles of music. 
The golden era of nova cançó was during the 1960s and 1970s, with most releases coming from the 60s. 
Here's Maria del Mar Bonet's 'Alenar', released 1977
 Alenar
https://youtu.be/STaae3HZEDE 

And longer, the album 'Liebeslied' by Jordi Soler, released 1972
 Jordi Soler - Liebeslied - LP 1986 (1972)
https://youtu.be/Esna8x-7Q5Y


The next two are gonna be on Nueva canción. 

Nueva canción was a musical movement in Latin America (Nueva canción latinoamericana) and Spain (Nueva canción española) during the 1960s and 1970s. Musically inspired by genres such as Hispanic American Folk Music, Trova and Spanish Folk Music depending on where it was performed, paving the way for Nueva canción latinoamericana in South America, Nueva trova in Cuba and Nueva canción española in Spain, respectively. Lyrically speaking it was also influenced by social events such as class conflict and the Cuban Revolution.
