---
layout: post
title: "425:"
date: 2022-02-15
---

Here's a 2006 Garage Punk / Power Pop album from Jay Reatard. Energetic, manic, and misanthropic.
 Jay Reatard - Blood Visions (Full Album)
https://youtu.be/lJ1MJan4Sow 
Here's an excerpt from a review describing the artist and the album: " Blood Visions is the debut studio album from Memphis, Tennessee’s Jay Reatard. Born James Lee Lindsey Jr, he dropped out of school at 16 and moved out of his parent’s house. He started making music full-time in the Memphis garage rock outfits The Reatards and Lost Sounds before he went on to form his own project under the moniker Jay Reatard. On January, 13th 2010 Lindsey was found dead in his home by his roommate. His autopsy revealed that he had died in his sleep from “cocaine toxicity and that alcohol was a contributing factor”. He was only 29 years old. In 2012, the documentary Better Than Something: Jay Reatard was released and I’d be keen on seeing it one day. The record itself blasts through 15 songs in under 30 minutes with catchy fuzz-driven, neurotic garage rock. I hate using the term garage rock because that’s underselling Lindsey’s incredible performance. The hooks will have you addicted quickly and the fever-dream-sounding songs have a familiar yet distinctive sound. Apparently, the record is somewhat of a concept album about a murderer which makes a lot more sense the more you listen to it. “I’m sitting and waiting for something to happen / Oh no no no! / They won’t get me” - “Waiting For Something”. Even the graphic album art seems like a purposeful attempt to play that narrative. Blood Visions was met with a ton of praise including a 9.1 rating from the land of pretentiousness itself - Pitchfork. "
