---
layout: post
title: "507:"
date: 2022-05-08
---

As talked about on rec 10, Gamelan as a form of musical ensemble originated in the island of Java; groupings typical consisting of metallophones and gongs, sometimes augmented with drums, flutes, and human voices. 

Gamelan gong kebyar, or commonly shortened to as simply "kebyar", is a Balinese Gamelan variant. Compared to other Gamelan sorts, kebyar is a relatively recent development. It emerged around the early 1910s as a style created for competitions between different villages' ensembles in the Jagaraga region. It has since grown to be the most popular style of gamelan across the entire Balinese island, being the go-to variant performed for dance and theater performances as well as religious Hindu-Balinese ceremonies and rituals. Being a style inherently created for cultural exposure, it also gained the most international notoriety out of all gamelan sorts and was adopted by ensembles outside of Indonesia. 

As its name "kebyar" (meaning "to flare up" or "to burst") already suggests, this genre is characterized for its free compositional techniques and harsh and rapidly changing dynamics, in contrast to the more stable and fixed progressions of older gamelans. The resulting sound can thus be summarized as intense, hard hitting and clanging. This flamboyant style is described as representative of the shifting social climate on the Balinese island during the early 20th century. These sound pretty similar to the gamelan music from Java recced before, but with some notable differences (of course, more free, and intense/dynamic).
 LEGONG  : Tabuh Gong  The Exotic Sounds of Bali
https://youtu.be/zoQCU6uif2c
  Dancers of Bali - Gamelan Orchestra from Pliatan, Bali, Indonesia (1952)
https://youtu.be/shr0ij3tYc8 
Pelog is one of the essential tuning systems used in gamelan instruments that has heptatonic scale (though many gamelan ensembles only have keys for five of the pitches). The other, older, also essential scale used is called slendro, and is pentatonic.
