---
layout: post
title: "526:"
date: 2022-05-27
---

Hernández "El Pavo" y su Orquesta is a 1965 album from Francisco Antonio Hernández Valarín, aka Frank Hernández. 

This one is Chachachá too, not only that, it is also Mambo (mentioned in previous rec). Mambo is a dance-oriented music genre that evolved from Danzón during the late 1930s thanks to brothers Orestes and Israel López, both of whom were members of Arcaño y Sus Maravillas. Their first mambo composition was a highly syncopated upbeat danzón called "Mambo". They dubbed this new style "nuevo ritmo" (new rhythm), and in a few years it became very popular all over Latin America, especially thanks to Pérez Prado, the King of Mambo, who exported mambo to Mexico. Cascarita, Chico O'Farrill, Xavier Cugat and Beny Moré also took part in the "mambo revolution" of the 1950s, which reached New York, where it became a worldwide phenomenon. Yma Sumac's combination of mambo and Exotica proved to be very successful as well. 
Mambo was the leading dance throughout Cuba prior to the Chachachá craze. 

Interestingly, this album also takes much inspiration from "Merengue", a music genre from the Dominican Republic. Very popular during the 19th and early 20th centuries, it had a commercial boom in the late 1980s thanks to Juan Luis Guerra. Merengue's dance steps are enjoyed throughout the Americas.
 FRANK ''EL PAVO'' HERNÁNDEZ: De Colección.
https://youtu.be/Sb1cjqOPNL8

I'm not as big of a fan of this album as the previous one, but I do like the cover!
