---
layout: post
title: "447:"
date: 2022-03-09
---

I missed it when it was released last month, but here's the rest of the album this track from rec 356 is from. Montreal-born musician Jean-Michel Blais' "aubades"
 Jean-Michel Blais - aubades (Full Album Stream)
https://youtu.be/EG6k58DLNMw 
After listening through it a few times, I feel it's currently my favorite album released in 2022 (I've not been listening to a particularly diverse selection of albums from this year, so make of this what you will). It falls into the genres of Chamber Music and Modern Classical or Post-Classical, and Romanticism. Romantic music is Western Classical Music that was initially developed in the period from 1815-1910. While predominantly practiced in Europe in the 19th century, Romantic music possesses stylistic qualities that make it more than a geographical or chronological category, it can be characterized by its expressive and emotional qualities, especially in terms of melody. The approach of Romantic composers was designed to break with the rigidities of the Classical Period. (As a side note, my favorite album of 2021 was probably By The Time I Get to Phoenix by Injury Reserve, from the 379th music rec) In Aubades, you hear some fantastic textural layering of classical instruments - harmony and melody - each with their own bright or dark voice, and each demonstrating a sonorous and rich quality that's a pleasure to listen to. Lush, expressive, full of vitality, and cultivated by the composer's experiences with the natural world around him. It's hard to pick favorites, so I'll recommend simply listening through the whole thing.

"The record's title refers to a Middle Ages dawn serenade about lovers separating at daybreak, and the music lives in this bittersweet goodbye, with the ache and hope of new days, the thrills and fears of uncertainty. Blais still hints at his varied influences, and he collaborated with Alex Weston (a former Philip Glass assistant) while composing the collection, but its distinctive quality comes from his finding inspiration in Renaissance and Middle Ages musical textures — those built for wide-ranging, emotive storytelling — as well as designer, poet, and activist William Morris' social-democratic artistic ethic."

WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO I LOVE SHAPES https://youtu.be/JbciZAlYUt0
WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
