---
layout: post
title: "589:"
date: 2022-07-29
---

Balkan Folk Music describes the the Traditional Folk Music of the Balkan region of Southeastern Europe, comprising the areas of Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, Macedonia, Greece, Bulgaria and Romania. The westernmost part of Turkey is also included. The previous rec's music can be considered Balkan Folk Music.

Predrag Gojković Cune was a Serbian vocalist and recording artist with a career spanning six decades. He and his work are mostly forgotten now, but when he was active, he had totemic status as giant of traditional Serbian and Bosnian folk music.

Gojković had an interesting professional path in that in the beginning he mostly sang popular schlager music and cha cha novelties, before he completely switched over to traditional folk.

Here's one of his songs off the album Janicar, released 1981:
 Predrag Gojkovic Cune - Ljubav mi srce mori - (Audio1979)
https://youtu.be/eD1DuBKxV-4
On this particular recording Gojković sings several medleys consisting of traditional music from Serbia and Bosnia, including some pieces from "Koštana". I believe it can also be considered Sevdah music (see rec 298). Sevdalinka music were melancholic folk songs, originating from Bosnia and Herzegovina, typically love-themed and accompanied by instruments like guitar and accordion. Sevdalinka was traditionally a pure vocal-based genre, but over time it became more popular for it to be accompanied by instrumental ensemble. The main instrument played in sevdalinka songs was saz (bağlama), a turkish string instrument, but nowadays it has been replaced by accordion. Other instruments of the musical ensemble usually consist of classical guitar, upright bass, violin, clarinet, flute and snare drums.

