---
layout: post
title: "600:"
date: 2022-08-09
---

The latter of the two modern chamber folk albums promised. This one is among the most based albums I've ever heard. I've been saving it for 600 because of how much I love it.

かがやき (Kagayaki) is a 2014 Chamber Folk and Neoclassical New Age album by 高木正勝 [Masakatsu Takagi]. Takagi also wrote the soundtracks for Wolf Children (rec 307), Mirai (rec 309), and The Boy and the Beast.

The English release of this album runs for 23 tracks, 1 hr 14 min, the Japanese version around doubles the length, and is more mellow with less field recordings. 0:16:41 - Amamizu is a fan-favorite. 0:09:53 - Shiraiki is my personal favorite.
 Takagi Masakatsu - Kagayaki (Full Album)
https://youtu.be/Ly71cxm0paE

Kagayaki makes use of Field and Nature Recordings (of cicadas chirping, playing in puddles (0:15:49 - Yamafuro), etc). It also belongs to the genres of Min'yō (Japanese Folk Music - ex. 0:09:53 - Shiraiki), Avant-Folk, and Sound Collage.

Piano, Traditional Japanese folk instrumentation, and orchestral swells build magical, unrestrained soundscapes bursting with life. These collages are often busy, and can be described as maximalist. 0:16:41 - Amamizu is a great example of this quality. Listen to the wonderful samples and sounds and see which you can pick out. They all come together in a beautiful, evocative piece.

Most of Kagayaki's songs are beautiful, pastoral, and peaceful. Sometimes dense and lush, often bittersweet, but always warm.

This album feels like good childhood memories. For me, many of these tracks evoke the sounds of a summer day after the rain, just as the sun begins poking out of the clouds. Others, visits to my grandparents in the countryside; hearing my grandma singing along with my dad's piano. Precious and important memories I consider myself truly lucky to have.

I don't know that I've experienced another singular album that can take me to another world as much as this one does, aside from maybe, maybe Windswept Adan from the previous rec.

10/10.
Unlimited Weeaboo Master said it best
