---
layout: post
title: "598:"
date: 2022-08-07
---

狂 (Klue) is a 2020 Noise Rock, Neo-Psychedelia, Art Rock album from 下山 [Gezan]. It also takes influence from Experimental Rock, Dub, Industrial Rock, and Post-Rock.

It's not as noisy as Noise Rock often gets, which allowed me to listen through this album while I was studying. There's a certain tribal element through a lot of the tracks that I think makes the album hypnotic, but somehow not distracting.

You get the feelings of anarchism and alienation that you often get with these genres of rock, but deeper than that, themes of pessimism, protest, and a general psychedelic crypticism are imbued into the album and it's lyrics. Opinions on the album are varied, some people seem to dislike the vocals of マヒトゥ・ザ・ピーポー "Mahi to the People." Personally I found that they make the music more interesting, and arent unpleasant. I don't listen to much Japanese noise rock, but this is my current favorite album of the genre.

It's imaginative and well put-together. A must-listen for those interesting in Japanese Psychedelic Noise Rock.

Here's the album, timestamped to my favorite track.
 GEZAN ‎– 狂(KLUE) (Full album, HQ) 2020
https://youtu.be/FVXEJNcz-G0?t=1302

The lyrics (inaccurately translated to English) are as follows:
Hack your brain in 40 minutes

Destroy consciousness and rewrite history from the inside

This presentation will become a weapon of Reiwa

All structures he destroys in this place

This moment, NEW MUSIC NEW LIFE

Various scenery is encroaching on my voice

God is absent, there is only prayer

A religion with no guru or class, solidarity with only imagination

A tribe that gathers only for a few minutes

Let's science the word "future" again here

we have to change now

This place won't tell you what to change

Beyond the imagination, when red flowers bloom

It's a revolution This is a revolution This is

This game is a mid-game, victory or defeat is even

Autonomize your senses and create a new plan

where is the wind blowing what is the city screaming

A sky that cannot fly with only one wing

what tank are we in now

I don't know because the glass is transparent

we are now a fish with wings

Smash his glass calling for a riot

Defiance soundtrack

Tribal Scream

heavy taxes on the sun

A diamond buried in chaos

kill the god

kill the power

kill the organization

KILL GEZAN



The next 2 recs will cover my two all-time favorite Japanese Chamber Folk albums (which might sound specific, but I actually listen to quite a bit of Japanese Chamber Folk).

Though the definition may have changed over the years, Chamber Folk generally describes gentle fingerpicked acoustic guitar or harp-led music that initially gained prominence in the UK and the US during the mid-to-late 1960s. More generally, it is defined by an elegant and ornate style of arrangement and production, creating a sound that can be alternately described as wistful, fey, pastoral and whimsical, often featuring celestial, crystalline female vocals and a variety of instruments as accompaniment. These include, either separately or as part of an ensemble, piano, drums, harpsichord and various horns, woodwinds and stringed instruments (both orchestral and plucked).
