---
layout: post
title: "599:"
date: 2022-08-08
---

As promised, the first of two incredible modern chamber folk albums. This one's the more minimal of the two. I'd give it to the end of the 3rd track before deciding whether it's worth listening    .

アダンの風 (Windswept Adan) is a 2020 Chamber Folk and Singer-Songwriter album by 青葉市子 [Ichiko Aoba].
 Ichiko Aoba - Windswept Adan (Full Album - 2020)
https://youtu.be/j1IqZtAlFf8 (note that the prologue lasts until 4:56)

A review from user Syndragami describes the album much better than I could:
"Ichiko Aoba created Windswept Adan as the soundtrack to an imaginary film, set on two fictional islands, where she is spirited away to another island teeming with flora and fauna. Aoba’s gift for creating lush atmospheres and intimate spaces is no more apparent than on this album, a tapestry of brilliant folk music that utilizes string quarters, harps, flutes, and her acoustic guitar. It’s her most dense record, yet it never feels crowded and busy; each element within the songs carries its own weight yet comes together to create a fleeting storm, like on Porcelain. Distance and space are utilized on this record, the instruments and Aoba’s vocals sometimes sounding close or far away from the mic create a unique effect of intimacy and delicateness. The album is an incredible feat, reminiscent of Morita Doji, Joanna Newsom, and Vashti Bunyan, yet its sound as a whole is very unique, and one that utilizes that to not only tell a story but to also build an entire world that you can get lost and explore in over and over again."

It's tranquil and mellow, aquatic and ethereal. Intricate but delicate; it gives the feeling of porcelain on skin. Beautiful, beautiful vocals, which shine perhaps the most on tracks 7, Kirinaki Shima (21:17) and 8, Sagu Palm's Song (22:47).

10/10.
