---
layout: post
title: "569:"
date: 2022-07-09
---

From Wikipedia: "A countertenor (also contra tenor) is a type of classical male singing voice whose vocal range is equivalent to that of the female contralto or mezzo-soprano voice types, generally extending from around G3 to D5 or E5, although a sopranist (a specific kind of countertenor) may match the soprano's range of around C4 to C6. Countertenors are often baritones or tenors at core, but only on rare occasions do they use their lower vocal range, instead preferring their falsetto or high head voice. 

The nature of the countertenor voice has radically changed throughout musical history, from a modal voice, to a modal and falsetto voice, to the primarily falsetto voice which is denoted by the term today. This is partly because of changes in human physiology and partly because of fluctuations in pitch. 

The term first came into use in England during the mid-17th century and was in wide use by the late 17th century. However, the use of adult male falsettos in polyphony, commonly in the soprano range, was known in European all-male sacred choirs for some decades previous. 

[...] In the second half of the 20th century, there was great interest in and renewed popularity of the countertenor voice [...] as well as the increased popularity of Baroque opera and the need of male singers to replace the castrati roles in such works. Although the voice has been considered largely an early music phenomenon, there is a growing modern repertoire collection for countertenors, especially in contemporary music." 

Jakub Józef Orliński is a Polish operatic countertenor singer. Here are a couple of his performances: 
 
https://youtu.be/g8Ue_7Tg08c (string chamber orchestra accompaniment)
  
https://youtu.be/yF4YXv6ZIuE (piano accompaniment, though you can also find a string chamber orchestra accompaniment from the same recording session as the previous)
