---
layout: post
title: "584:"
date: 2022-07-24
---

Brutal Prog

First coined by Weasel Walter of the band The Flying Luttenbachers, Brutal Prog describes a diverse array of artists working within the Progressive Rock and Avant-Prog idioms. Brutal Prog combines the intensity and sonic dissonance of genres like Hardcore Punk, Noise Rock, No Wave, and Free Jazz with the complexity and adventurousness of Progressive Rock, Avant-Prog, and Math Rock.

Though the genre has its precursors (such as the highly influential group Ruins - mentioned previous rec, and maybe later as well), its peak of popularity occurred in the early 2000s with bands like Upsilon Acrux, Hella, Zs, Ahleuchatistas, Yowie, and Grand Ulena.

I'm not too sure why, but a ton of the most popular brutal prog albums appear to come out of Japan, Tokyo specifically. For example, P.O.N., Koenji Hyakkei (mentioned on the previous rec), Bondage Fruit, Happy Family, and of course Ruins, were each formed in Tokyo and have gone on to produce very well-regarded and popular Brutal Prog albums.

That said, today I'm reccing an album from a UK band, black midi's "Hellfire" which is currently ranked #2 for 2022 on RYM. Incidentally, black midi also released the 5th highest rated album from 2021 (Cavalcade) and the sixth highest for 2019 (Schlagenheim), though each of these sound very different.
 Hellfire
https://youtu.be/QfAOFyhfZJU (this one's shorter)
 black midi - Welcome To Hell
https://youtu.be/Efmq_uXt1Rk


I didn't like their stuff very much at first, but a lot of it's really grown on me.
