---
layout: post
title: "577:"
date: 2022-07-17
---

From wikipedia:
"Satanicpornocultshop is a Japanese experimental music group making assemblage-style compositions that incorporate a variety of musical styles and techniques. The group draws heavily on hip hop and electronic influences to create "bricolage hip hop" inspired by the theories of Claude Lévi-Strauss. Beginning in the early 2010s, the group began focusing on Juke and Footwork music, influenced by the Chicago scene."

Their music belongs to the genres of Footwork, Plunderphonics, Juke, Breakcore, Experimental, and Electronic. Among the various plunderphonics bands I'm a fan of (ie. Avalanches, Oneohtrix) this group has a particularly interesting style.

Their 2010 album Arkhaiomelisidonophunikheratos is their most popular by far. It combines elements of chamber folk, shoegaze, novelty/art/glitch pop/IDM and soundscapes with the previously mentioned genres they typically work in. Lot's of musical creativity jammed into almost every track, making the whole album worth a listen.

It's a surreal album to be sure, but its also cinematic in the way that it builds these dense, distinct soundscapes on each track. The production is busy, and the sounds/samples might be slightly too eclectic for some to enjoy.

My favorite tracks are 3. Saddam Fed Birds While Jailed, and 11. Paradise.
 Satanicpornocultshop - Arkhaiomelisidonophunikheratos (2010)
https://youtu.be/90j7UclJfC8?t=488

I'm also partial to 1. Next Year's Snow, a cover of a Vashti Bunyan (mentioned rec 93 and 313.5) song. She's one of my favorite folk artists, so I'll have to get around to talking about her soon.

and track 7. Pinky, a beautiful acoustic cover of Missy Elliot's "Get Your Freak On"
