---
layout: post
title: "495:"
date: 2022-04-26
---

Soundtracks from the NieR games are some of the most highly-regarded and best-known in the medium. On RYM, NieR:Automata's OST is ranked #21 for all soundtrack music, which keeps it consistently in the top 10 (Currently #6, I believe, but the chart was broken in a recent update) for Video Game Music. The Other games' soundtracks are ranked similarly high (ie. NieR Gestalt & RepliCant). Generally the pieces included fall into the genres of New Age, Neoclassical New Age, Cinematic Classical, Cinematic Classical Ambient, Classical Crossover, and "Epic Music" (that's a real genre, I didn't make it up). The games make some incredible use of vertically dynamic adaptive music for almost every song in the soundtrack, which makes getting the full experience without actually playing the game pretty much impossible. I've talked about is before, but adaptive music is a form of music only possible with games, where user interaction or input affects the music being played, for example, how day blends into night in towns in BOTW, or how walking from one area to another in Tarrey Town will add or subtract instruments from the bgm. There are a few video essays (probably written ones too) on what NieR does differently with adaptive music and how the soundtracks succeed, "The Dynamic Music of NieR: Automata" is a good one. Anyway, the soundtrack is still good on its own, so here's a link to the full Youtube playlist.
 意味/無/ジュニーク･ニコール
https://youtu.be/9I_DKXWdmRU?list=PLdR7m7PFLzQ7RqOVfxk2Fr2F-a7iWzovn. The relaxing tracks with vocals, like Voice of No Return or Peaceful Sleep are generally my favorites. Both of those are present in this compilation:
 Chill Music -  Nier Automata OST
https://youtu.be/ovC7bOLn5so?t=568
