---
layout: post
title: "593:"
date: 2022-08-02
---

Here's a little more of Ethereal Wave (aka Ethereal Darkwave Ethereal Goth), mentioned last rec.

Ethereal Wave is a sub-genre of Darkwave (see recs 33, 359, 450-451). The genre was pioneered by Cocteau Twins (last rec), This Mortal Coil and early Dead Can Dance. The music is characterized by atmospheric guitar soundscapes and soprano female vocals that create an ethereal, surreal and otherworldly effect. Sound effects like echo and delay are also often used. Ethereal wave initially evolved from the Gothic Rock scene, which was a strong influence on the genre, although many later ethereal wave artists were more heavily influenced by Dream Pop. 4AD Records and Projekt are generally seen as the two most important labels in the development of ethereal wave.

Ethereal wave, especially the music of Cocteau Twins, was one of the key inspirations for the British dream pop/shoegazing scene of the late 1980s and early 1990s.

Ethereal Wave was most popular from ~1985-2001, but it maintains stable and significant popularity today.

Coincidentally, many of the most popular and highly rated ethereal wave albums are from Japan. I haven't done Japanese music in a whole 2 days, so here's a bit of that:

From 不思議 (Fushigi), by 中森明菜 [Akina Nakamori]. Released 1986. Couldn't find the full album on YouTube, but it's worth a listen if you like this sort of thing.
 Akina Nakamori: 幻惑されて
https://youtu.be/qByr6pA_UT4

静焔, by 空夜coo:ya [Sorayoru coo:ya]. Released 2005.
 空夜coo:ya - 静焔 (Jou En) [Full Album, 2005]
https://youtu.be/SwrWm-IDPWQ?t=554 (tracks 3 and 4 are good for getting a feel of this one)
