---
layout: post
title: "550:"
date: 2022-06-20
---

Rumba cubana (aka Cuban Rumba or Afro-Cuban Rumba) is a folkloric manifest of the Afro-Cuban music that encompasses dance, voice, and drums. It developed in the Cuban provinces of Matanzas and Havana in the late 19th century and was influenced by the music brought to Cuba by both Spanish colonizers and Africans brought to Cuba during the slave trade. There are three styles of Afro-Cuban rumba: rumba yambú (the oldest), rumba columbia and rumba Guaguancó. This last one, Guaguancó, emerged after the abolition of slavery in Cuba in 1886; usually features a lead singer, accompanied by three large drums, known as tumbadoras or congas, and a call-and-response chorus.

Watermelon Man by Mongo Santamaría is a particularly popular and influential album of the genre, released 1963. It also belongs to the genres of the aforementioned rumba Guaguancó, Afro-Cuban Jazz, Boogaloo, and Chachachá. Here are a few tracks off the album:
 Mongo Santamaria - Yeh Yeh - 1963
https://youtu.be/vWF8UOhLgdk
 Get The Money
https://youtu.be/hWiD2C8s86A
 Mongo Santamaria      	Watermelon Man
https://youtu.be/zJuX-JJ8WF0 
That last one was written by Herbie Hancock a year prior, for his debut album "Takin' Off" 

There was an interesting story about this song in Herbie's autobiography. Herbie was asked to play his song Watermelon Man by Donald Byrd for Mongo at a show that was dead. Mango heard it and got on stage and started playing congos to it, a bass player got on stage and glanced at Herbie's left hand and played a bass line. The show exploded in energy. In a MasterClass, Herbie used the song as an anecdote to illustrate how there are infinite approaches to any one song.
