---
layout: post
title: "545:"
date: 2022-06-15
---

I've done a few shoegaze or shoegaze-influenced recs in the past (57, 373), but I haven't gone into detail on the genre. 

From RYM: "Shoegaze is a style of Alternative Rock that focuses on creating ethereal, noisy washes of sound, with bands utilizing various effect pedals, such as distortion, reverb, and delay. The guitars often reach overwhelming volumes, making the lyrics unintelligible and mainly applying vocals as another melodic layer. The genre's name was coined in a review of Moose's concert, where the lead singer read the lyrics taped to the floor during the show. The British press picked up the term and began using it regarding bands that stared at their pedals or guitars (often due to inexperience) while performing live. 

Origins of shoegaze trace back to various 1980s groups. Inspired by Noise Rock and Indie Rock bands like Sonic Youth, who utilized alternative tunings to achieve their desired crunch and tones, and Dinosaur Jr., whose sound delved into distorted volumes and feedback. Gothic Rock groups like The Cure and Siouxsie and The Banshees sound also inspired early shoegazers to use effects such as chorus and flanger. Cocteau Twins obscuring their vocals under layers of dreamy melodies also proved to be influential, while The Jesus and Mary Chain's Psychocandy predated shoegaze's sound, with a mix of poppy tunes and intense noise barrages." 

Proper Shoegaze bands emerged in the early 90s, with the popularity of the genre peaking from 1991 to 1993. The popularity of the genre quickly subsided in the second half of the decade, but has gradually been increasing in popularity since that point and has almost reached a new peak.

Here are two of the most influential Shoegaze albums, these are both considered essential albums for the genre: My Bloody Valentine - Loveless (1991)
 LOVELESS
https://youtu.be/zFI4PBP_2sM?t=803 This one's a more excited album, but it's still got an ethereal feel, especially in the vocals. Slowdive - Souvlaki (1993)
 Slowdive - Souvlaki (Full Album) - 1994 US Release, with bonus tracks
https://youtu.be/HpzZ_sslsHM "Relaxed" shoegaze. Pleasant, dreamy.

 
https://images-ext-1.discordapp.net/external/whbhTnov3O0erdu_mJTHgyyPPL2iHaCZ8Ex3t8fXh10/https/i.imgur.com/zkiKTP8.jpg?width=663&height=663
