---
layout: post
title: "571:"
date: 2022-07-11
---

from RYM: "Utopian Virtual is a style of Vapor music which evolved as part of the Vaporwave scene in the early to mid-2010s. The genre focuses on the sound and aesthetics of commercial Electronic music of the 1980s and 1990s, particularly corporate-associated background music such as Muzak releases which vaporwave and Mallsoft artists also utilize. The genre takes inspiration from a variety of sounds, particularly the sonic moods of New Age, Easy Listening, and Smooth Jazz, (also often Bossa Nova) with compositional influences from Hypnagogic Pop and Synthpop. This wide array of influences is brought together with a limited sound palette inspired by the "tacky" sound of late 20th century synthesizers, ringtones, and sample-based synthesis as found in Sequencer & Tracker music from early game consoles and home computers. [...] 
Although it evolved in parallel to vaporwave and utilizes similar aesthetics, utopian virtual does not typically sample recordings of the period wholesale, and its artists instead rely on emulation of this sound for their original compositions. Even as it remained a fairly niche style, prominent vaporwave artists dabbled in utopian virtual, like Vektroid under the alias PrismCorp Virtual Enterprises who built nostalgic atmospheres by recontextualizing MIDI arrangements of actual corporate and easy listening music from decades past" 

Here's a couple albums by Vektroid: 
 
https://youtu.be/zsn47-8Edtk - 2017 - (more of a prog electronic/synth funk feel) 
 
https://youtu.be/D6kMLQoJjAw - 2013 - (more of the corporate muzak feel - therefore more well-defined as Utopian Virtual)  Although it is quite niche, Utopian Virtual maintains a strong following. Last year it was more popular than ever, and some of these albums are genuinely good. It's also fun to hear takes on the genre by different artists.
