---
layout: post
title: "533:"
date: 2022-06-03
---

And here's an album from Philip Glass, Glassworks, released 1982. Performed by The Philip Glass Ensemble.
 Philip Glass - Glassworks (complete)
https://youtu.be/6Stu7h7Qup8?t=384 
Some aspects of this album can be considered "Post-Minimalism." Said genre seeks to push Minimalism's linear composition style forward, and takes in influences from genres such as Jazz, Traditional Folk Music, and others. Against this claim, however, is that Minimalist composition techniques, such as additive and divisive rhythm, while they may appear in post-minimalist music, are typically disguised and not in the forefront as they are here. The "inspiration" (plagiarism) Hans Zimmer takes from this album and Glass' other works is obvious. The timestamped track, Floe, is almost identical to parts of the Soundtrack for Interstellar. 0:00 Interstellar main theme by Hans Zimmer 7:00 Interstellar cornfield chase by Hans Zimmer 26:15 Inception dream is collapsing by Hans Zimmer

Here's one other thing by Philip Glass. This'll be the last Minimalist music I rec here for a very long time, as its not something I find myself listening to often. Koyaanisqatsi is an original Film Score released in 1998. It's considered by many to be Glass' finest work.
  Philip Glass - Koyaanisqatsi
https://youtu.be/j3q7bT0v9IE

Here's something else from "Loli in early 20s" (last mentioned on rec 442) released a couple months ago. This one has no vocal samples that I can hear. More of a breakcore/chipbreak thing with a wonky feel.
 Loli in early 20s - korehanani no tame ni aru nodeshou ka?
https://youtu.be/EZCqjkY-yVI

I'll also leave this short and informative breakcore tutorial it was used in here.
 How to kill breakcore
https://youtu.be/NyoZao1qC-8
