---
layout: post
title: "579:"
date: 2022-07-19
---

To be honest, everyone who might care about something like this has probably already heard it, or at least heard of it.

Everywhere at the End of Time (2019) is a Sound Collage/Plunderphonics/Turntable/Ambiet/Hauntology compilation by Leyland James Kirby as The Caretaker. The Caretaker was a two decade musical project exploring memory and its gradual deterioration, nostalgia, and melancholia. He released 17 studio albums under this name. His first several releases comprised, treated, and manipulated samples of 1930s ballroom pop recordings.

It runs for just over 6 hours and 30 minutes, progressing from Stage 1 through 6, each stage exploring the advancement and eventual totality of dementia. Read the video's description for information on each stage.
 The Caretaker - Everywhere At The End Of Time - Stages 1-6 (Complete)
https://youtu.be/wJWksPWDKOc

To many, the series is among the most saddening and horrifying musical works. Stage 4 is my favorite, but stage 5 might be the most chill-inducing. I'm only able to appreciate the later stages having also listened to stages 1-3 in full.

If the run time is too long, my picks from each stage to get a good idea of the features of each one would be:
Stage 1: 00:00:00 - A1 - It's just a burning memory
Stage 2: 00:58:06 - C5 - Surrendering to despair
Stage 3: 01:37:53 - E6 - Sublime beyond loss
Stage 4: 02:31:02 - H1 - Stage 4 Post Awareness Confusions, 02:52:55 - I1 - Stage 4 Temporary Bliss State
Stage 5: 03:58:49 - L1 - Stage 5 Advanced plaque entanglements, 04:21:37 - M1 - Stage 5 Synapse retrogenesis
Stage 6: 05:04:32 - O1 - Stage 6 A confusion so thick you forget forgetting, 06:09:12 - R1 - Stage 6 Place in the World fades away

Here's a few (not all) of the appearances of It's Just a Burning Memory, in order.
 CA 0:00 / 18:10 The Caretaker - It's just a burning memory (Everywhere at the end of time)
https://youtu.be/11GVvHQ6wAo


An Empty Bliss Beyond This World is the ninth studio album by the Caretaker. It runs for 45 minutes, and is much more digestible in a single sitting. In An Empty Bliss Beyond This World, the music never gets any more distorted than it does in the third stage of Everywhere at the End of Time.
