---
layout: post
title: "522:"
date: 2022-05-23
---

Nueva canción española. 
This genre was developed during the 1960s in Spain. It was strongly influenced by Nova cançó and its political stance against Franco's dictatorship. Nueva canción española reclaimed back the popular folklore of each Spanish region and it had several variations: Nueva canción castellana/canción del pueblo (Madrid and Castilla), nueva canción aragonesa (Aragón), nueva canción canaria (Canarias) and Manifiesto Canción del Sur (Andalucía). Canciú mozu astur/cameretá (Asturias), A nova canción galega (Galicia) and Euskal kantagintza berria (Euskadi) were related too, although they sung in their own regional languages. 

They were also strongly influenced by Nueva canción latinoamericana, particularly by the possibility of singing 'canción protesta' (protest songs) in Spanish. All these regional variations adapted the influences of nova cancó and nueva canción to the traditions, culture, music, Poetry and folklore of each region. This genre also experienced its golden era during the 1960 and 1970s. Many nueva canción española artists remained successful during the 1980s and subsequent decades but the movement itself by the mid-1980s was seen as passé. 
Mediterráneo by Joan Manuel Serrat, released 1971.
 joan manuel serrat - mediterraneo
https://youtu.be/_w2WOHs9wG4 

It could be argued that Paco Ibáñez introduced in Spain the Singer-Songwriter movement in 1956. Here's an album I really enjoy from him.
 Paco Ibáñez - Paco Ibáñez 3 (1969)
https://youtu.be/futa4hzZmx4?t=258
