---
layout: post
title: "590:"
date: 2022-07-30
---

Music for Church Cleaners Vol. I and II is a 2012 album by Irish experimental musician Áine O'Dwyer. Áine O'Dwyer is known for her live performances and recordings, which explore the aesthetics of sound and its relationship to environment, time, audience, and structure. Music for Church Cleaners Vol. I and II belongs to the albums of Ambient, Field Recordings, Drone, and Christian Liturgical Music.

Over the course of several months, Áine O'Dwyer was given access to the pipe organ in St Mark’s Church, Islington while the cleaners were at work.

Primarily a harpist, for this release she played and recorded organ improvisations live. The album was recorded while cleaners were working in the church. You can hear these workers request that she not stay on one note too long, at 45:16 and 1:05:47.


It's nostalgic for me; this kind of recording, where you're hearing the organ being played outside of church service with chatter and movement in the background. I know its not an experience most people can share, but this was, and is a very personal part of my childhood. These were sounds I used to hear frequently as a kid, but it's been years now since I last heard them.

The service I used to attend at St. Paul's Eastern United Church is, for various reasons, no longer active. Even moreso are the memories I have of that time precious and indispensible to me (even though I was never religious).

The Little Lord Of Misrule is my favorite track on the album. The Sunday School at my church was very active, and those sounds of other kids playing that you can hear in the recording are so familiar it's almost strange. For kids playing, though, I think that's probably a universally recognizeable sound.
 Áine O'Dwyer - Music For Church Cleaners Vol. I & II // Full Album
https://youtu.be/NooCL1bVw-U?t=2163

55:54 Mass Of The Rosary Ring is a close second for my favorite, just because I like the way the movement of the pedals sounds.

There's a really wholesome resolution at the end of album. A conversation between O'Dwyer and one of the cleaners.    
 Áine O'Dwyer - Music For Church Cleaners Vol. I & II // Full Album
https://youtu.be/NooCL1bVw-U?t=5367

gazebo said it best
