---
layout: post
title: "574:"
date: 2022-07-14
---

The Northumbrian smallpipes (also known as the Northumbrian pipes) are bellows-blown bagpipes from North East England, where they have been an important factor in the local musical culture for more than 250 years. The family of the Duke of Northumberland have had an official piper for over 250 years. The Northumbrian Pipers' Society was founded in 1928, to encourage the playing of the instrument and its music; Although there were so few players at times during the last century that some feared the tradition would die out, there are many players and makers of the instrument nowadays, and the Society has played a large role in this revival. In more recent times the Mayor of Gateshead and the Lord Mayor of Newcastle have both established a tradition of appointing official Northumbrian pipers. In a survey of the bagpipes in the Pitt Rivers Museum, Oxford University, the organologist Anthony Baines wrote: "It is perhaps the most civilized of the bagpipes, making no attempt to go further than the traditional bagpipe music of melody over drone, but refining this music to the last degree." The Northumbrian smallpipes also used bellows to supply air. Here's a demonstration of the instrument and how to play it. I've timestamped where she starts to tune the 3 drone notes (1 less than usual), and she plays "The Bonnie Pit Laddie" shortly after.
 An introduction to Northumbrian smallpipes
https://youtu.be/fBwwWFGd9qE?t=123 
Here's a band performance featuring the instrument. This is Kathrym Tickell's ensemble. There's another great, slightly slower live version also on youtube.
 Lads of Alnwick
https://youtu.be/3wmOO0A0dgk (2009)
