---
layout: post
title: "428:"
date: 2022-02-18
---

I've mentioned drone maybe 5 times in the past, but here's a description of what the word actually means as a genre: "Drone is a genre characterized by a focus on long, sustained tones and tone clusters, or repetition of single notes. 

Unlike other genres that use drones as a component (such as to establish tonality), drone music puts drones at the forefront, removing most melody and rhythm. A majority of drone music highlights an understated, internally microtonal and primarily timbral sonic movement provided by the acoustics of whichever instrument is creating the drone. In the case of electronic drone, this is often achieved by slight fluctuations in the drones or intentional inharmonicity. 

The origins of the genre are found across the world, such as in European Plainsong's vocal drones, the sustained notes often found in rāga in South Asian Classical Music, Japanese Gagaku's aitake, Appalachian Folk Music's dulcimer noter-drone, and Pìobaireachd bagpipe drone from Scotland. Modern composition played a role in the genre's development as well, with Minimalism providing a base of repetitious drone and Serialism's exploration of duration and timbre expanding upon that foundation." To most listeners, drone as a stylistic choice / technique is known to primarily influence 4 genres, Ambient, Neo-Classical, Post-Rock, and Drone Metal, though there are countless others. Here's an album falling into the categories of Drone Metal, Post-Metal, and Noise Rock, "Boris at Last -Feedbacker-" by Boris.
 Boris At Last -Feedbacker- (HD)
https://youtu.be/eWgXJMyqZ2g 
Apocalyptic, atmospheric, surreal, and noisier than Ambient Drone. 2003 album.
