---
layout: post
title: "452:"
date: 2022-03-14
---

Susumu Yokota was at the forefront of Japan's electronic music scene as it blossomed in the early '90s. His vast and exceptional body of work found him fans from far beyond the realms of the dance community, with Bjork, Phillip Glass, and Radiohead's Thom Yorke just a few names from his long list of admirers This is his 2004 album, "Symbol." It is downtempo, and ambient-leaning electronica in genre. It also falls into the categories of Plunderphonics, Modern Classical, and Post-Minimalism.
 Susumu Yokota - Symbol (Full Album)
https://youtu.be/uA1Rvgo5ipo?t=910 
The album samples more than 2 dozen assorted classical and neoclassical works, fusing those with world music, and using various electronic techniques, creating a genre-defying kaleidoscope of sound. This is a very original album. I timestamped my favorite track, but the whole thing is worth listening to for anyone interested. Highlights: [ 06:34 ] traveler in the wonderland [ 10:54 ] song of the sleeping forest [ 15:11 ] the plateau which the zephyr of flora occupies [ 29:10 ] blue sky and yellow sunflower

Quite the achievement. RIP.

Some of the classical and neo-classical samples used:

 Traveler in the Wonderland
    Aquarium by Camille Saint-Saëns (1886)
    Bacchanale (Acte 3, Scène 2) by Camille Saint-Saëns (1877)
    String Quintet in E Major, Op. 11, No. 5 (The Celebrated Minuet) by Luigi Boccherini (1775)

 Blue Sky and Yellow Sunflower
    Six Marimbas by Steve Reich (1987)
    Clair De Lune by Claude Debussy (1903)

 Song of the Sleeping Forest
    Pavane Pour Une Infante Défunte by Maurice Ravel (1899)
    Pas De Deux by Vladimir Spivakov and The National Philharmonic of Russia (2004)
    La Fille Aux Cheveux De Lin (Pour Violon Et Piano) by Claude Debussy (1910)

 Purple Rose Minuet
    Clair De Lune by Claude Debussy (1903)
    Symphony No. 1 in D Major, Movement 2 by Gustav Mahler (1889)

 Symbol of Life, Love and Aesthetics
    Symphony No. 5: Adagietto by Gustav Mahler (1902)
    Concerto for Two Violins in D Minor, BWV 1043: II. Largo Ma Non Tanto by Johann Sebastian Bach (1730)

 Music From the Lake Surface
    Symphony No. 5: Adagietto by Gustav Mahler (1902)
    Le Cygne (The Swan) by Camille Saint-Saëns (1886)
    Pas De Deux by Vladimir Spivakov and The National Philharmonic of Russia (2004)

Long Long Silk Bridge
    Pas De Deux by Vladimir Spivakov and The National Philharmonic of Russia (2004)

The Dying Black Swan
    I. Modéré by Maurice Ravel (1915)
    Change by Meredith Monk (1971)

Flaming Love and Destiny
    I. Allegro by Franz Schubert (1826)
    Moonlight Sonata by Ludwig Van Beethoven (1801)

Fairy Dance of Twinkle and Shadow
    Reflets Dans L'Eau by Claude Debussy (1905)
    Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini Variation 18 by Sergei Rachmaninoff (1934)

I Close the Door Upon Myself
    III. Poco Allegretto by Johannes Brahms (1883)
    Warsaw Concerto by Richard Addinsell (1941)
    Concerto No. 2 in G Minor, Op. 8, RV 315, "L'estate" (Summer) by Antonio Vivaldi (1723)
