---
layout: post
title: "497:"
date: 2022-04-28
---

Mei-lan Maurits has an interesting style that is somewhat hard to place. As far as I can hear it, this performance by her is using a scale commonly used in Sufi music (I'll talk about that later), with some Indian raga or maybe even Korean Buddhist or Christian religious chant influence? Obviously the singing bowls might represent Tibetan roots, but as there are only a few ways to play them, so its hard to tell. It could also be that her style is unique, and is reminiscent of those others by chance. In any case, this music is deceptively complex (intentionally so, I believe, as her goal with the music is to reach as many "spiritual" people as possible, regardless of religion). Very atmospheric and meditative.
 Mei-lan - Angelic Frequency (inspired by 'Awaken' album)
https://youtu.be/0_Pn5puYb0o 
Trying to count along is a real challenge, but for most of it you can hear a bar of 3 followed by a faster bar of 4.

Impressively, at some points she layers her voice upwards of 4 times. Generally she starts with her middle range, then does another middle range line, then does low, then high, then she creates some dissonance with the last layer. She plays the bowl sporadically, and somehow it all works together. Such a section starts at 7:11, I believe it happens 4 times throughout this video. Also, despite the seemingly stationary structure with that unmoving bass note throughout the entire half hour, she regularly creates tension and resolution in the music, and it always feels pretty driven.
