---
layout: post
title: "554:"
date: 2022-06-24
---

Delia Beatriz AKA Debit is a Mexican-American Deconstructed Club, Ambient, Dark Ambient, Post-Industrial, Electroacoustic, and Drone composer. In a similar horror-y vein as the last rec, here is "The Long Count" by this artist. It's her second album, and has admittedly met some very mixed reviews.
 Debit - The Long Count (Full Album)
https://youtu.be/OxoUfUuZMAE 
Personally, I like it. The earlier parts of this album, to me, feel like a gradual, but inescapable descent into disorientation, and fear. In that way, it reminds me of the works of The Caretaker, like Everywhere At The End Of Time (this is a well-known musical project, but since its one of my favorite musical works, I'm sure I'll cover it eventually). 

I'll admit that that gradual descent is somewhat lost on me in the second half, but from a musical standpoint I think the whole album was worth a listen. That idea of a descent may not have even been the original intent, anyway. The opener "1st Day" establishes the undulating tones that unify the record, humming that veers from acoustic warmth to metallic note-bending. Each track is given a numbered day and time, as if documenting a week spent in the wilderness - though, other interpretations could be easily made. Echoes resonate throughout the record: siren-like whistles during the moans of 1st Night and 3rd Night, and snatches of birdsong are tucked between the reverb of 2nd Day and 5th Day. The constant fuzz you hear might be likened to the rustling of wind through trees. All of this makes for a very interesting listen. In any case, you'll know if this is for you from the first 10 seconds.
