---
layout: post
title: "539:"
date: 2022-06-09
---

Here's something a little different. The Strombo Show is a Canadian radio show hosted by George Stroumboulopoulos, which has aired since 2005. The show originated on Standard Broadcasting's CFRB in Toronto and CJAD in Montreal as a light-hearted news-oriented talk show. In November 2007, the show moved to the Corus network and the format changed, with a focus on music. The on-demand version of the show consists of weekly, 4-hour commercial-free, algorithm-free music. It is described as a cultural and community experience. In general, episodes are eclectic mosaics of pop genres (like rock and jazz, but also with popular folk, etc) from different regions, with a slight focus on Canadian artists. Today's (June 12th) episode features: New music from Midnight Oil, Jeen, Kaya Usher, Spoon, Sate, Wine Lips, Beatrice Deer, Vicki Lovelee, Sweet Alibi, Habibi, Real Estate, Franz Ferdinand, Robert Plant & Alison Krauss, Julie Doiron, Megan Nash & The Best Of Intentions, Anzola, Pick A Piper, Keys N Krates ft. Haviah Mighty, Orion Sun, KTheChosen, K-os, Heiress, & Land Of Talk. as well as... Many classic tracks, including Stars, Arcade Fire, Jackson Browne, Joni Mitchell, Sonic Youth, Smashing Pumpkins, Bruce Cockburn, Joe Grushecky & The Houserockers, Johnny Cash & June Carter, Nancy Sinatra & Lee Hazlewood, Erykah Badu, Outkast, Metallica, Lee Aaron, & Yo La Tengo. Last week's episode had artists I like like Rivers Cuomo, Kamasi Washington, Jean-Michel Blais, David Bowie, and RHCP. The episode before that had Andy Shauf, Baby Keem & Kendrick Lamar, Damon Albarn, DJ Shadow, a previously-unearthed Radiohead song, Nirvana, Joni Mitchell, etc.
 
https://www.cbc.ca/listen/live-radio/1-241-the-strombo-show
