---
layout: post
title: "510:"
date: 2022-05-11
---

So far I've spoken of the Sundanese "Gamelan Degung" of West Java, and recently, the popular "Gamelan Gong Kebyar" of Bali. Here's one more interesting variant, (though there remain many others); The "Gamelan Jegog", of the Western region of Jembrana in Bali. Unlike the mostly bronze metallophone and gong gamelan ensembles degung and kebyar, this variant is characterized for being played entirely on marimba-like instruments made from bamboo which widely differ in size. Due to the cultural importance given to competition in Jembrana, gamelan jegog is mostly performed during special contests called jegog mebarung where two or several orchestras from different villages face each other at making the most booming sound and showcase the most impressive playing, with the public playing the role of the judge. It is also played during various social events like weddings and children's birthdays as well as dance performances and even the annual Makepung buffalo races in Negara, but never during ceremonial ones. As such, this gamelan sort has uniquely no religious associations whatsoever and is instead performed for pure entertainment purposes. 

In comparison, gamelan degung which developed in the courts of the Bupati (Indonesian administrative officials) under the Dutch rule in the 19th century, used to be played exclusively for royal ceremonies, although this was an older form of degung, sometimes now called degung klasik. Following the Indonesian independence in 1945, degung was adopted by non-aristocratic people, but retains a "high class" image, and nowadays is performed mostly for public events worthy of its elegance like hotel receptions, weddings, and elections. In summary, we have the "high-class" gamelan degung (see rec 10), the "free, harsh, and dynamic" gamelan kebyar (507), and finally the "less high-class, non-ceremonial" gamelan jegog, played with bamboo instruments, which you can hear here:
 [BALI] Jegog (Suar Agung) vol.1 [GAMELAN]
https://youtu.be/IW-QPw4-4cU
 Tangis Alit
https://youtu.be/qFxQHdAvD9o

The AKIRA soundtrack is packed full of super interesting musical influences and styles. I'll do two of its tracks now, both of which utilize gamelan ensembles. 
This first one has an ensemble that sounds like gamelan degung to me, but I'm not an expert so I'm not certain. There's also an electric organ and some synth, and a whole bunch of other stuff.
 AKIRA soundtrack - Geinoh Yamashirogumi - "Tetsuo"
https://youtu.be/De3cWcjZ0Q0 Here's another track, this one features a ensemble that sounds to me like gamelan jegog:
 AKIRA soundtrack - Geinoh Yamashirogumi - "Kaneda"
https://youtu.be/HB6Ch_VAfIk
