---
layout: post
title: "525:"
date: 2022-05-26
---

La Charanga Eterna is a 2001 album from Orquesta Aragón. 
It belongs to the genre of Cuban Charana, a type of dance music played by traditional Cuban ensembles, influenced by Son cubano but performed on European instruments such as piano, bass, violins, and flutes. Charanga is often confused with the similar style of Pachanga. Charanga is more traditional and refers to orchestras while pachanga is more Western dance music-oriented. 

La Charanga Eterna is also Chachachá, that is, Cha Cha Chá, Cha-Cha-Chá, Cha-Cha, or Cha Cha, a style of ballroom dance music derived from Danzón. It was pioneered in 1951 by Enrique Jorrín with his famous composition "La engañadora", first released as a single in 1953 by Orquesta América, where Jorrín played the violin. This hit single launched the so-called "chachachá craze" replacing mambo as the leading ballroom dance throughout Cuba and, shortly after, the rest of the Americas. Like danzón and Mambo, chachachá has a 4/4 time signature, but it is slower and generally less complex than mambo. Its characteristic steady beat became the mainstay of popular Cuban Charangas such as Orquesta Aragón, Fajardo y Sus Estrellas and Orquesta América del 55, which kept the style in vogue until the early 1960s, when the Pachanga craze exploded. 

According to Jorrín himself, the original purpose of chachachá was to be a simpler, more elegant ballroom style than mambo, eliminating syncopated rhythms to make the dance more easy and accessible. 
The album could also be described as Bolero (Ballad with a 2/4 time signature that appeared in eastern Cuba towards the end of the 19th century), and Son Cubano (see previous rec). 
My favorite three tracks from the album:
 La Reina Isabel
https://youtu.be/_YR8dnMYw9Q
 Siboney
https://youtu.be/C3M9drW6qnY
 El Paso De Encarnación
https://youtu.be/qd-MU0jeGsg 
Warm, passionate, playful.
