---
layout: post
title: "561:"
date: 2022-07-01
---

It's been about 100 days since the last mention of Folktronica, so it's time to talk about my favorite folktronica album I listened to in that time. 

무너지기 (Crumbling) is a 2018 album by 공중도둑 [Mid-Air Thief], a pseudonymous South Korean folktronica musician. It belongs to the genres of Folktronica, Neo-Psychedelia, Psychedelic Pop, Psychedelic Folk, Dream Pop, and Progressive Pop. It won Best Dance & Electronic Album at the 2019 Korean Music Awards.
 [2018] 공중도둑 (Mid-Air Thief) - 무너지기 (Crumbling) [Full Album]
https://youtu.be/_dw3c_eQsiE 
Listening through the album I found myself surprised by the quality and creativity of its production. It seesaws from warm, ethereal, traditional sounding acoustic folk instrumentation to complex, often playful, psychedelic synths and electronic manipulation. That said, the whole album is infused with a layered, almost tropical lushness that brings it all together. 

Some have faulted this album by indicating an inability to stick to a solid idea. Others have accused it of using complexity as a crutch, resulting in a sensory overload not offering anything meaningful besides that. Fans have touted the album as one of, if not the most perfectly produced folktronica album ever, offering gorgeous and mesmerizing soundscapes on every track. 

In any case, I think it's definitely worth an active listen, start to finish. Western listeners have compared the folktronica sound of the album to the works of Animal Collective (rec 444).
