---
layout: post
title: "524:"
date: 2022-05-25
---

Afrocubism is a 2010 album from eponymous multi-cultural ensemble Afrocubism. A cross-over album featuring Cuban and African music tradition. In fact, this album belongs to both the genres of Mande music (see rec 486), as well as Guajira/Son Cubano (see rec 487). 
To reiterate from before, Mande music describes that which encompasses the diverse forms of the Mande peoples, a group of West African ethnic groups who speak any of the Mande languages. In this album as well, you can clearly hear Mande instruments (i.e. the balafon, wooden xylophone, various string instruments). 
Guajira was originally developed in Cuba between the 18th and 19th Century as a narrative music style influenced by Tonada chilena. Guajiro is slang for "campesino" (peasant), making reference to the countryside origins and themes of the music, which is also referred to as 'peasant music' or 'Cuban country'. Guajira commonly narrates a story with a metrical pattern based in a stanza of ten eight-syllable lines, called "décima española". 

Guajira was originally played with acoustic instruments, such as bandurria, laúd (lute) and claves, and in comparison to Afro-Cuban styles, the music followed the lyrics with a 3/4 or 6/8 time signature. 
Son Cubano is a style of Cuban music popular from the 1920s to the 1950s that combines the structures of Spanish song-oriented music along with African rhythms and percussion. 

Timestamped my favorite track, but there are lots of goodies on here.
 Afrocubism - Afrocubism (Full Album)
https://youtu.be/dldKppY1Lj0?t=2244
