---
layout: post
title: "585:"
date: 2022-07-25
---

Zolo

Zolo is a retrospective term coined by college radio DJ Terry Sharkie in the 1990s for his "Zany Zolo Musik Hour" show to describe what he identified as a cross-genre trend in the 1970s and 1980s, rooted in New Wave and Post-Punk and characterised by erratic, jerky rhythms, synthesized bleeps and boings, chipper falsettos, and sometimes more abstract experimentation inspired by artists like The Residents. Also key to this perceived zolo aesthetic is a theatrical flair indebted to Cabaret and the quirky Progressive Rock of Gentle Giant, along with a Zappa-esque sense of humour. The term has also been used to refer to a corresponding visual aesthetic with neon colours and sharp, jagged graphic objects, which prominently features in these artists' album covers and posters; the term itself comes from a 1980s toy company whose products mirror this aesthetic.

As a retrospective term, most of the artists who have been described by Sharkie and his disciples as zolo do not identify with the term and it has been criticised as broad-ranging, connecting largely unrelated artists and sounds. The songs I rec today will reflect this, but keep in mind that those who consider zolo valid are in general agreement that each of these belong to the genre.

Most zolo releases were coming out from 1979 to 1983.

Here's a track from "Nothing To Fear" by Oingo Boingo, released 1982. This one also belongs to the genre of New Wave, which I'll talk about next time.
 Nothing To Fear (But Fear Itself)
https://youtu.be/5PMjsY1MACU (no synthesized bleeps and boings on this one)

A track from "Sing To God", by Cardiacs released 1996.
 Eden On The Air
https://youtu.be/W1aL6FGn8bI

A track from "Cheap At Half The Price" by Fred Frith, released 1983.
 Fred Frith - Some Clouds Don't
https://youtu.be/cFCML8N4fZE

Quirky rock


I'm gonna talk about 2 more genres in this series of avant-prog/prog rock subgenres thing I've been on, after that I'll move onto something else.
