---
layout: post
title: "581:"
date: 2022-07-21
---

Revolutionary opera is a form of Peking Opera that originated in China during former Chinese Communist Party Chairman 毛泽东 [Mao Zedong]'s Cultural Revolution (1966-1976). Revolutionary operas, the most popular of which were organized by Mao's wife and actress 江青 [Jiang Qing], bear a number of characteristics that distinguish them from many older operas, Chinese and foreign alike. While revolutionary operas borrow heavily musically from traditional Peking operas, the flattering portrayals of royalty and other aristocracy that were common in these operas were defied by revolutionary operas, which vilified figures such as China's past emperors, as well as totalitarian Chinese-Taiwanese dictator 蔣中正 [Chiang Kai-shek] and his supporters. Instead, revolutionary operas upheld China's People's Liberation Army and working class as strong forces united in bringing socialism to China. To highlight these thematic breaks from tradition, the writers of revolutionary operas usually incorporated musical influences from Western Operas, including ballet and Wagnerian operas.

The most popular revolutionary operas were the "Eight Model Plays," which portrayed communist heroes working against opponents such as the Chinese ruling class, Japanese invaders during the Sino-Japanese wars, and Chinese Nationalist army during the Chinese Civil War. Revolutionary operas were extraordinarily popular during their peak, with upwards of 800 million Chinese having seen them during the Cultural Revolution. Several revolutionary operas were released on the LP format in the 1960s and 1970s, and the genre inspired the Korean Revolutionary Opera genre in North Korea. While revolutionary operas declined in popularity after the conclusion of the Cultural Revolution, some of them are still popular and performed today in China.

The Red Detachment of Women was a 1960 War/Drama movie based on a legend of heroism on Hainan Island in 1930s. This story is about a slave girl Qionghua who escapes from despot Nan Batian’s house and joins the Red Army. It can be considered a Revolutionary Opera work.
Here are some excerpts from a 2017 performance of the ballet version of the story:
 《红色娘子军》——中国芭蕾史上里程碑式的剧目 | 中央芭蕾舞团
https://youtu.be/5P2XorrhImw

Not the most traditional Revolutionary Opera in a musical sense, instead taking much more from western music tradition (and dance). Regardless, it's a short and interesting watch.

During Richard Nixon's famous visit to China in February 1972, he watched Red Detachment of Women, and was impressed by the opera. He famously asked Jiang who the writer, director, and composer were, to which she replied it was "created by the masses."


Also, here's a 1937 recording of, once again, Jiang Qing (then stage name "Lan Ping"), singing in her role as the heroine of the film Wang Lao Wu. 
She tried to cover up these kinds of her performances after marrying Mao.
 王老五 - 藍萍(江青)/王次龍(1937)
https://youtu.be/t5qu7S8zjzo

Jiang Qing was in office 1 October 1949 – 9 September 1976 as the Spouse of the Paramount leader of China. The Gang of Four was a Maoist political faction composed of four Chinese Communist Party officials. They came to prominence during the Cultural Revolution and were later charged with a series of treasonous crimes. The gang's leading figure was Jiang Qing. Before Mao's death, the Gang of Four controlled many of China's political institutions, including the media and propaganda. However, Jiang, deriving most of her political legitimacy from Mao, often found herself at odds with other top leaders. Mao's death in 1976 dealt a significant blow to Jiang's political fortunes. She was arrested in October 1976 by Hua Guofeng and his allies, and was subsequently condemned by party authorities. Since then, Jiang has been officially branded as having been part of the "Lin Biao and Jiang Qing Counter-Revolutionary Cliques" (林彪江青反革命集团), to which most of the blame for the damage and devastation caused by the Cultural Revolution was assigned. 

Though she was initially sentenced to death, her sentence was commuted to life imprisonment in 1983. After being released for medical treatment, Jiang died by suicide in May 1991.
