---
layout: post
title: "588:"
date: 2022-07-28
---

Le mystère des voix bulgares : volume 1 is a 1975 album by Bulgarian ensemble Le Mystère des voix bulgares (aka The Bulgarian State Television Female Vocal Choir). This group has been active from 1952 to present. It belongs to the genres of Bulgarian Folk Music, Choral, A Capella, Polyphonic Chant, and White Voice.

The folk music of Bulgaria consists of a variety of traditions and styles, with distinct sounds originating from current and historical regions such as Sofia, Dobrudzha, Macedonia and Thrace. It is most readily associated with its singing traditions (often revolving around holidays and cultural events) and the use of complex asymmetrical rhythms. There's a lot more to say about it, but I'll return to the genre later.

White voice is a traditional singing style of Eastern European peoples. The singing technique is based on open throat and free volume with a bright color. Having its origins in working in the field it emphasizes intensity, sometimes being referred to as "śpiewokrzyk" ("singing-cry"). It has traditionally been performed during baptisms, burials, weddings and other kinds of social gatherings. It can take a form of polyphonic and monophonic singing.

Although it's members has changed significantly, here's a 2017 recording of Le Mystere des Voix Bulgares performing the album.
 Le Mystere des Voix Bulgares - Full Performance (Live on KEXP)
https://youtu.be/AFgzzWT3zX4

This might be hit-or-miss for some people due to the intense vocal style. If you can get past that, or if you enjoy it, what lies beyond is a really mystifying, ethereal,  spiritual or folkloric 45 minutes. Gorgeous harmonization,


Also, I learnt this from going through the comments, but apparently the song during the opening sequence of Ghost in the Shell was heavily inspired by Bulgarian Folk music.
 Making of a cyborg
https://youtu.be/-u77XdL8_B4
