---
layout: post
title: "551:"
date: 2022-06-21
---

I've talked about Mande music twice before (486, 524), it's a term that encompasses the diverse musical forms of the Mande peoples, a group of West African ethnic groups who speak any of the Mande languages. 

Today's is quite different from both of the other two I've recced. 

"Kora Music from West Africa by Sona Jobarteh & Band." Sona Jobarteh is the first female professional kora player to come from a west African Griot family. She is a British multi-instrumentalist, singer and composer with Gambian roots. 

The Kora is one of the most important instruments belonging to the Mande peoples of West Africa (Gambia, Senegal, Mali, Guinea and Guinea-Bissau). It belongs exclusively to griot families, and usually only men who are born into these families have the right to take up the instrument professionally. 

Sona Jobarteh combines various genres of African Music and western musical elements. 

For those unaware, A griot (/ˈɡriːoʊ/; French: [ɡʁi.o]; Manding: jali or jeli (in N'Ko: ߖߋߟߌ, djeli or djéli in French spelling); Serer: kevel or kewel / okawul; Wolof: gewel) is a West African historian, storyteller, praise singer, poet, or musician. The griot is a repository of oral tradition and is often seen as a leader due to their position as an advisor to royal personages. As a result of the former of these two functions, they are sometimes called a bard.
 Sona Jobarteh & Band - Kora Music from West Africa
https://youtu.be/Ig91Z0-rBfo 
Sonah Jobarteh – Acoustic Guitar/ Kora/ Vocals Maurice Brown – Acoustic Guitar Andi McLean – Electric Bass (5 strings)/ BVs Mouhamadou Sarr – Djembe/ Congas/ Calabash/ BVs 

This performance kept me interested the whole way through. It’s soft, soulful, passionate, relaxing, uplifting, and warm. It's up there with my favorite recs from 500 onwards.

Recorded on July 1, 2015 at the "mon ami", Weimar
