---
layout: post
title: "448:"
date: 2022-03-10
---

RUN DMC - Walk This Way ft. Aerosmith A pretty cool collaboration. Hard rock + Hip-Hop/Rap = Rap rock. Great music video.
 RUN DMC - Walk This Way (Official HD Video) ft. Aerosmith
https://youtu.be/4B_UYYPb-Gk 
I usually avoid popular music (+10 mil views) for this list, but since this is from 1986 I guess it gets a pass.

Speaking of Hip-Hop music being mixed with things, here's an influential Jazz-Rap track by Stetsasonic “Talkin’ All That Jazz” (1988)
 Stetsasonic - Talkin' All That Jazz (Official Music Video)
https://youtu.be/2kdQ4soLcac 
Copyright issues about sampling were used by the record industry as evidence to control Hip hop culture's products, and to diminish the value of Hip hop. Hip hop was seen as an illegitimate recycling of material, rather than a creative juxtaposition of semiotic material (interpretive signs and symbols of meaning) that communicated clearly with audiences.

Queen Latifah's U.N.I.T.Y. (1993) includes sounds from jazz, reggae, and Hip hop, intentionally bringing multiple impressions of African American culture together.
 Queen Latifah - U.N.I.T.Y. (Official Video)
https://youtu.be/f8cHxydDb7o

here's a bit of a documentary with one of the originators of breakbeat DJing, Afrika Bambaataa, describing breakbeats. A good explanation of why breakcore is one of my favorite genres, lol.
 Scratch (Hip-Hop Documentary) full
https://youtu.be/jcOUYOg-dAM?t=345 (starts 5:45) 
The documentary also explains an interesting shift in Hip Hop with the division between MCs and DJs in the 1980s. When the music of the 1970s was met with commercial interests (i.e., recordings), the culture was displaced from its origins that were necessarily tied between the lyrics (rappers) and the music (DJs). Producers took over when recordings no longer required a DJ, and rappers took over as the leaders. DJs took a backseat in mainstream music until 1995 when a group of DJs emerged to reclaim this 'pillar' of Hip Hop, yet as a virtuosic and artistic practice that developed on its own trajectory, somewhat separate from rapping.
 ラグドウズ
https://youtu.be/TzvJ6mvGWMs
this is straight fire 🗑️
