---
layout: post
title: "471:"
date: 2022-04-02
---

Jana Winderen is a Norwegian musician. Her compositions fall into 3 primary categories; Animal Sounds, Electroacoustic, and Lowercase. Here's her album The Wanderer from 2016
 Jana Winderen - The Wanderer [2016, Full Album]
https://youtu.be/xCYN6IovKvc 
As the name implies "Animal Sounds" describes recordings done in order to capture sounds produced by animals. This is in contrast to other Nature Recordings of landscapes which are mostly made in a purely ambient context - animal music is mainly recorded for biological purposes. Those emitted sounds are especially analyzed in the studies of zoomusicology (focusing on the musicality aspect perceived by both animals and humans) and zoosemiotics (focusing on the communication and behavior aspect), both being fields of the broad animal study of zoology. Bioacoustics, combining the research on biology and that of sound physics, is also another study where animal sounds form an essential part of. Musical properties are particularly attributed to Birdsong and Whale Song for their patterns, complexity and regional variations akin to human music, but Winderen's recordings mostly feature aquatic or sea creatures - the Wanderer is a sound composition created from hydrophone recordings. I've talked about Electroacoustic before. It describes the manipulation and processing of sound sources to create atmospheric pieces. There's a lot to say about Lowercase, but the gist is this: It uses very quiet sounds, often using silence to juxtapose these sounds so as to amplify their intensity

Good to listen to while reading something like The Shadow over Innsmouth
 01 Jana Winderen - The Noisiest Guys on the Planet, Pt. 1 [ASH INTERNATIONAL]
https://youtu.be/LbnCgHdjlmg?t=576
 Honestly this goes hard af
