---
layout: post
title: "596:"
date: 2022-08-05
---

Acousmatic Music is fixed-media Electroacoustic music designed to be reproduced by multiple loudspeakers without the presence of instrumentalists and visual cues.

The term acousmatic derives from akousmatikoi, the students of ancient Greek philosopher Pythagoras, who followed his lectures beyond a curtain to avoid that visual stimuli could interfere with the learning process. The adjective “acousmatic” in a musical sense was firstly adopted by composer and theorist Pierre Schaeffer in his Traité des objets musicaux to refer to a form of listening where sounds are dissociated from their causal source. The notion of acousmatic started to circulate when composers such as François Bayle, Annette Vande Gorne, Beatriz Ferreyra, and Bernard Parmegiani promoted the practice of reproducing compositions in concert halls without any performer on stage; all the music was pre-recorded, pre-edited and stored on fixed media (initially tapes, later digital formats), the only live interaction being a real time spatialization of sounds among multiple loudspeakers, performed directly at the mixer by the composer or by another interpreter. The practice of acousmatic concerts with live spatialization became a standard output for electroacoustic composition, enabling the development of experimental multichannel sound systems and orchestras of loudspeakers called acousmoniums.

The genre has experienced sporadic, at times sinusoidal, popularity since the first releases of ~1960.

By nature, it's not an easy genre to describe in this format. "Real time spatialization of sounds among multiple loudspeakers" of course means you can't get the full experience by listening through headphones.

I always rec a song with these dailies, so here's Roland Kayn's Rhenit, from his 1984 album Tektra:
 Roland Kayn - Rhenit
https://youtu.be/vgZVl7uYaTA


Tektra runs for a total of 292 minutes, Rhenit is one of its 13 tracks. Without the in-person acousmatic element, the album belongs to the genres of Drone, Electroacoustic, and Ambient.

Some of you have likely experienced Janet Cardiff's Forty‑Part Motet at the National Gallery of Canada. This is one such example of Acousmatic Music.

From the Gallery's website: "This brilliant sound sculpture by Canadian artist Janet Cardiff is a reworking of Spem in Alium, a piece by 16th-century English composer Thomas Tallis. Forty separately-recorded choir voices are played back through 40 speakers positioned around the Rideau Chapel in the Indigenous and Canadian Galleries. The effect of the work on visitors is deeply moving."

My favorite part of Motet is actually the intermission. They decided to keep recording during a break of the 3-hour recording session. You can hear the singers doing scales, talking, laughing, clearing their throats, etc. It's a really incredible, human moment.

If you haven’t yet been, I highly recommend everyone check out this exhibit at least once. Walk between the speakers and hear each voice. Stand in the center of the room and be surrounded by the choir.


Here's a picture of the exhibit:
https://www.gallery.ca/sites/default/files/styles/ngc_crop_16x9_1600px/public/hero40part.png?itok=M3G7QQxv&timestamp=1640877897

 Spem in Alium
https://youtu.be/1b4DR2dAXSE 
And here's a recording of Spem in Allium by The King's Singers. As you can imagine, it's a very interesting piece to be able to hear each individual voice of by walking around.
