---
layout: post
title: "587:"
date: 2022-07-27
---

Canterbury Scene

Canterbury Scene (aka Canterbury Sound) is an offshoot of Progressive Rock developed in the counterculture of the English city of Canterbury in the late 1960s, emphasizing the influence of Jazz-Rock and Jazz Fusion.

The musical links binding this scene's bands together are rather loose, and some consider that the term "Canterbury scene" only describes the counter-culture that emerged at this time in this area of England. Nevertheless, some recurrent patterns can easily be shown in the music. The Canterbury sound is strongly based in Jazz-Rock / Jazz Fusion, while blending the main elements of Psychedelic Rock. Despite their complex improvisations and avant-garde style, early acts on the scene did not stray too far from including Pop hooks. Contrary to the (real or supposed) seriousness of the jazz-influenced Canterbury sound, lyrics are often light, comical, absurdist, incongruous or even meaningless.

The first shots were fired by a limited group of musicians that formed several bands with overlapping lineups. For example, Robert Wyatt played for Soft Machine and Matching Mole, Daevid Allen played for Gong and Soft Machine, Dave Sinclair played for Caravan, Hatfield and the North and Matching Mole, etc. Bands adopting Canterbury sound can be then found, for example, in France – where Gong was formed – with Moving Gelatine Plates or Traveling, in Belgium with Cos, in Netherlands with Supersister, in Italy with Picchio dal Pozzo and D.F.A., in the USA with Master Cylinder, and even in Japan with Mr. Sirius.

Here's a track off Rock Bottom, a 1974 album from Robert Wyatt.
 Sea Song
https://youtu.be/agCX2RQWN44

Here's a track off In The Land Of Grey & Pink, a 1971 album from Caravan
 In The Land Of Grey & Pink
https://youtu.be/sTAhkb31khY

And here's a track off Third, a 1970 album from Soft Machine.
 Slightly All The Time (Remastered 2006)
https://youtu.be/xlCDbNmp7Ow

Canterbury Scene was at it's peak of popularity from 1970 to 1973. It retained some popularity for the rest of the 70s, then declined.
