---
layout: post
title: "503:"
date: 2022-05-04
---

Last one for today, but since I'm doing Japanese music, here's the best-selling single of all-time within Japan:
 【Masato Shimon / Hiroo Takada】Swim On! Taiyaki-Kun【English Sub】
https://youtu.be/qWGfhXn6fzA (Released 1975) 
The song was used in Japanese child television program Hirake Ponkikki. It became the first single to debut at number one on Oricon on January 5, 1976, and stayed there for 11 consecutive weeks. It surpassed the sales of "Onna no Michi" (an enka song I was considering mentioning for recs 178-180) and eventually sold over 4.53 million copies, becoming the best-selling song in Japan. Despite the success, the company paid Shimon only 50,000 yen (approximately 170 dollars given the exchange rate at the time) as a guarantee.

And here's one of the best selling Japanese singles worldwide (not the very best, I just like it more). The actual song name is "Ue o Muite Arukō"; I look up as I walk - so the tears won’t fall.
 Sukiyaki Kyu Sakamoto FULL SONG ReEdit STEREO ReMix HiQ Hybrid JARichardsFilm 720p
https://youtu.be/rbTsG9jrJsU (Released 1962) 
The genre both these songs belong to is called "Kayōkyoku", also known by Shōwa Era Pop or Standard Japanese Pop. Prominent during the later period of the Shōwa era (early 1950s to late 1980s). Kyu Sakamoto died in Japan's deadliest plane crash ever, Japan Air Lines Flight 123, which killed 520 with 4 survivors. His song was number one in the US for three weeks and also became a top ten hit in numerous other countries including Australia, Canada, Britain and Germany. In total, it sold over 13 million copies. It remains the only Japanese single to land number one on Billboard's hot 100 charts.
