---
layout: post
title: "558:"
date: 2022-06-28
---

Americana is a term that is sometimes used interchangeably with Alt-Country, and the two genres do have a great deal of overlap, but there are important distinctions between the two. First, Americana represents a revival of a broader swath of American roots music and Roots Rock with intermingling influences of Country, Bluegrass, American Folk Music, and Blues. Second, Americana generally eschews the rowdier Cowpunk and Indie Rock influences that are often evident in alt-country. 

Artists who helped to define the genre include Lucinda Williams, Steve Earle, and Dave Alvin while artists such as Calexico brought in distinct Tex-Mex influences. Beginning in 2010, a Grammy Award was given for Americana, and the 2011 award for Mavis Staples illustrates the breadth of the genre, particularly with respect to Gospel and Blues compared to alt-country. 

Sound-wise, it's similar to country music but slower, and often a little darker. Lyrics are generally introspective. Topics include sorrow and redemption. These are my 3 favorite Americana songs (from my 3 favorite Americana albums) and I thoroughly enjoy each of them, though I have to be in the right mood.
 Magnolia Electric Co - "A Little At A Time" (Official Video)
https://youtu.be/iattIZ6y5PM (2007)
 One
https://youtu.be/QEnkU8bQ-xk 
Released 25 November 2003 two months after his death, recorded 1993 - 2003. The album runs for a total of 4:02:31.
 Bonnie "Prince" Billy - I See A Darkness (Official Video)
https://youtu.be/4iV4NwSbscg (1999) In some ways this music is Country-derivative, but it would be wise not to overlook it for that reason. The differences are distinct, and those who don't enjoy Country often find themselves loving Americana, in the same way they might love folk, or bluegrass.
